poa Articles
1 - https://lite.poandpo.com/news

1 - UK says human error wiped 1000s of police computer records
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/uk-says-human-error-wiped-1000s-of-police-computer-records/
UK says human error wiped 1000s of police computer records Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Britain's policing minister said Monday that "human error" led to hundreds of thousands of DNA records and other data on criminal suspects being erased from the national police computer. "Clearly this situation is very serious," Malthouse said, adding that "we will know the full extent of the impact of this issue over the next few days." Labour lawmaker Yvette Cooper said it was "very hard to understand how 400,000 records could be deleted from such a crucial system without there being a proper back-up system in place." Malthouse said officials were trying to recover the data but he could not guarantee that no criminal investigations would be harmed by the error. He said the government was working "to make sure that any operational impact is obviated or mitigated." ■

2 - Internet access restored in Uganda
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/internet-access-restored-in-uganda/
Internet access restored in Uganda Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Internet is back on in Uganda five days after the government ordered service providers to switch it off just hours to last Thursday's General Election. The shutdown had elicited widespread criticism and condemnation against the government. Many users in Uganda reported partial restoration on Monday, with some tech observers noting that full access was yet to be achieved. The internet shutdown came after the country’s Communications Commission ordered a service blackout until further notice. In its letter on the suspension, the agency failed to give reasons for its decision.  Social media access, however, is reportedly still blocked. But some users in the neighbouring country are able to bypass the block to access sites such as Facebook and Twitter via VPN (virtual private network). ■

3 - 6.8 earthquake struck west-central Argentina 
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/68-earthquake-struck-westcentral-argentina-/
6.8 earthquake struck west-central Argentina  Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   An earthquake of magnitude 6.8 struck west-central Argentina on Monday, followed by at least five aftershocks that shook buildings and sent products tumbling off supermarket shelves, but there were no immediate reports of injuries. The earthquake hit at a depth of 10 km (6 miles), the German Research Center for Geosciences (GFZ) said, with its epicentre located 40 km (25 miles) south of the province of San Juan. The aftershocks ranged in magnitude from 3.5 to 5, the European Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said. Posts on social media showed many homes and buildings shaking, with the seismic activity leaving cracks in roads, while glass bottles fell off the shelves in shops. San Juan Governor Sergio Uñac urged people to remain calm following the earthquake and called on them to reach out in case they need any assistance. "Let us put into practice all the measures we have learned to prevent incidents, while we are committed to knowing the impact of the (earthquake) to collaborate in everything necessary," he said bit.ly/3qyOf4a in a tweet, advising those who suffered damage or in need of assistance to call the emergency number 911. No tsunami warning was issued, the U.S. Tsunami Warning System said. ■

4 - Avalanche hits Dombai ski resort in Russia's North Caucasus region
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/avalanche-hits-dombai-ski-resort-in-russias-north-caucasus-region/
Avalanche hits Dombai ski resort in Russia's North Caucasus region Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   An avalanche hit a ski trail in the area of Dombai settlement in Russia’s Karachay-Cherkessia Region, an emergency source said, adding that up to 12 people could be trapped. "An avalanche hit a piste in the settlement of Dombai on Mount Mussa-Achitara. Two trailers where the ski equipment is rented found themselves under snow and a caf· was damaged," the source said. "According to early reports, there could be four to 12 people there at the time of the avalanche," TASS cited the source as saying. Rescuers are working at the site. There has been no immediate data about injured people. According to the local authorities, the disaster could have been triggered by an artificial seismic impact in another place, where an avalanche occurred in accordance with a plan, without causing any damage or harm to people. "Today we performed an impact, 'fired' at an avalanche centre, causing an avalanche that did no harm to anyone. But the seismic wave, most likely, triggered an avalanche coming down from another source, and it went to the lower station of the drag lift", emergency service official Khizir Chochaev said. He noted that, according to preliminary data, the avalanche was of medium size - around several tens of thousands of cubic metres of snow. "Six people are alive, they helped to dig them out, we are looking for one more person right now", a member of the rescue team told Sputnik. ■

5 - WHO: One country got 25 doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Not 25 million; not 25 thousand; just 25
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/who-one-country-got-25-doses-of-covid19-vaccine-not-25-million-not-25-thousand-just-25/
WHO: One country got 25 doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Not 25 million; not 25 thousand; just 25 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The World Health Organisation has warned of a ‘catastrophic moral failure’ if fair and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines is not made available to all countries. Speaking in his opening address to the WHO’s annual Executive Board meeting, Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on both governments and vaccine manufacturers to work together to prioritize those most at risk from the vaccine saying, ‘It’s right that all governments want to prioritize vaccinating their own health workers and older people first. But it’s not right that younger, healthier adults in rich countries are vaccinated before health workers and older people in poorer countries.’ Referencing COVAX, the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for all countries, regardless of income level, Dr. Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, COVAX is ready to deliver what it was created for having secured 2 billion doses from five producers, with options on more than 1 billion more doses. Deliveries of those doses are due to commence in February. However, he cautioned that the promise of equitable access is at ‘serious risk’ and said, ‘44 bilateral deals were signed last year, and at least 12 have already been signed this year.’ In illustrating how the risk is manifesting, Dr. Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, ‘More than 39 million doses of vaccine have now been administered in at least 49 higher-income countries. Just 25 doses have been given in one lowest-income country. Not 25 million; not 25 thousand; just 25.’ He appealed to countries and companies who have signed bilateral deals which drive up the cost of the vaccine and enable countries to jump the queue to consider the impact of their decisions which will leave the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people at risk. He referred to the making of bilateral deals as ‘self-defeating’ as ‘these actions will only prolong the pandemic, the restrictions needed to contain it, and human and economic suffering.’ Criticism was also made of the decisions by most manufacturers to prioritize regulatory approval in rich countries where they will make higher profits. He warned this has the potential to delay COVAX deliveries and lead to hoarding, a chaotic market, an uncoordinated response, and continued social and economic disruption. While the European Union has allocated more than €850 million to COVAX controversy arose last week when it became apparent that Germany had signed a bilateral deal with Pfizer-BioNTech for 30 million vaccine doses outside of the allocation it will receive under the EU’s joint vaccination program. Dr. Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on countries who have already signed deals to be transparent with COVAX and to give it priority. He also asked that those countries share their own doses with COVAX, especially once they have vaccinated their own health workers and older populations, so that other countries can do the same. ■

6 - Death toll from Indonesia earthquake climbs to 84, around 28,000 evacuated
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/death-toll-from-indonesia-earthquake-climbs-to-84-around-28000-evacuated/
Death toll from Indonesia earthquake climbs to 84, around 28,000 evacuated Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The death toll from a powerful earthquake that struck Indonesia’s Sulawesi Island last week has risen to 84, the country’s disaster agency said Monday. The National Disaster Management Agency reported that 73 people were killed in Mamuju Regency and 11 in Majene Regency after the magnitude 6.2 quake struck six kilometers (3.73 miles) northeast of Majene city on Friday, at a depth of 10 km (6.2 mi). Authorities reported that 253 seriously injured people were treated in hospitals in the region and the number of those evacuated to safe areas was approximately 28,000. Several buildings were severely damaged, including the office of the West Sulawesi governor, Mamuju Hospital and a minimarket. The strong quake also caused power and phone service outages and landslides along roads. ■

7 - Trapped for more than a week Chinese miners send up note asking for help
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/trapped-for-more-than-a-week-chinese-miners-send-up-note-asking-for-help/
Trapped for more than a week Chinese miners send up note asking for help Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   At least 12 gold miners trapped hundreds of yards underground in China for more than a week have sent up a note warning that they are injured, surrounded by water and urgently need medicine. Twenty-two workers were trapped more than 650 yards from the mine's entrance after a blast eight days ago near Qixia city in eastern Shandong province. After days without any signs of life, rescuers heard knocking sounds on Sunday afternoon as they drilled through the mine's shaft. A note was sent up on a line from the depths below saying that at least a dozen of the miners are still alive, but that they urgently needed help as their health deteriorates. ■

8 - ITV discovers China's secret: Wuhan medics told to lie about COVID-19 outbreak
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/itv-discovers-chinas-secret-wuhan-medics-told-to-lie-about-covid19-outbreak/
ITV discovers China's secret: Wuhan medics told to lie about COVID-19 outbreak Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Chinese medics have been filmed undercover for the first time admitting they realised coronavirus could be transmitted between humans but were told by the government to keep quiet, <a href="https://www.itv.com/news/2021-01-18/wuhan-medics-undercover-we-were-told-to-lie-about-covid-19-outbreak" class="companylink" title="ITV">ITV reported</a>. The medics said they were in no doubt how dangerous the virus was and that they were aware of deaths as early as the end of December 2019. One said: "Actually, at the end of December or beginning of January, the relative of someone I know died of this virus. "Many of those living with him were also infected, including people I know." Another said: "We all felt there shouldn’t be any doubt about human to human transmission." Speaking after Wuhan was released from lockdown, the professionals also outlined a cover-up by the Chinese government authorities from the start of the outbreak. One added: "We knew this virus transmitted from human to human. But when we attended a hospital meeting, we were told not to speak out.   "The provincial leaders told the hospitals not to tell the truth." They said authorities knew that new year celebrations in January would "accelerate the spread of the virus".  "People suggested at city level that it shouldn’t go ahead, but it did because such an event would present a harmonious and prosperous society," the medic said. ■

9 - Indonesia: Another 4.2-magitude earthquake shakes West Sulawesi
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/indonesia-another-42magitude-earthquake-shakes-west-sulawesi/
Indonesia: Another 4.2-magitude earthquake shakes West Sulawesi Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Another earthquake, measuring 4.2 magnitude, shook Majene district, West Sulawesi of Indonesia, on January 18, four days after a 5.9-magnitude quake jolted the central province. The tremors could be felt in the coastal city of Mamuju. According to the Indonesia Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysical Agency (BMKG), the epicentre was at the depth of 10km, and 16km to the east of Majene. Since January 14, Mamuju and Majene have been repeatedly struck by quakes and subsequent aftershocks. A 6.2-magnitude quake on January 15 claimed 81 lives and injured more than 820 people. It has also forced about 28,000 people to flee their homes to seek safety. ■

10 - Death toll from earthquake in Indonesia climbs to 81
https://lite.poandpo.com/news/death-toll-from-earthquake-in-indonesia-climbs-to-81/
Death toll from earthquake in Indonesia climbs to 81 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The death toll from a powerful earthquake that struck Indonesia’s Sulawesi Island on Jan. 15 has risen to 81, the country’s disaster agency said late Sunday. The National Disaster Management Agency reported that the bodies of eight people were found during search and rescue operations. A total of 70 people were killed in Mamuju Regency and 11 in Majene Regency after the magnitude 6.2 quake struck six kilometers (3.73 miles) northeast of Majene city at a depth of 10 kilometers (6.2 miles). Authorities reported Saturday that 253 seriously injured people were treated in hospitals in the region and the number of those evacuated to safe areas was approximately 28,000. Several buildings were severely damaged, including the office of the West Sulawesi governor, Mamuju Hospital and a minimarket. The strong quake also caused power and phone service outages and landslides along roads. Earthquakes regularly strike parts of Indonesia since the country lies on the Circum-Pacific Belt, also known as the Ring of Fire. On Feb. 23, 1969, a powerful earthquake with a magnitude of 6.9 rocked Majene, killing 64 people and injuring 96 others. ■

2 - https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business

1 - French central bank to exit coal, cap oil and gas investments
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/french-central-bank-to-exit-coal-cap-oil-and-gas-investments/
French central bank to exit coal, cap oil and gas investments Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The French central bank said on Monday it would exit from coal and limit exposure to gas and oil in its investment portfolio by 2024 as part of a shift towards more environmentally friendly assets. It said in a statement that by the end of this year it would no longer invest in companies which generate more than 2% of their revenues from coal and reduce the threshold to zero by the end of 2024. Currently the threshold stands at 10%. It said it would also exclude by 2024 companies with more than 10% of revenue coming from oil or 50% from gas, which could potentially mean the central bank would have to shun group’s like French energy major Total . As a shareholder, it would also from this year vote against new fossil fuel projects by the companies it invests in. ■

2 - Egypt resumes commercial flights to Qatar
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/egypt-resumes-commercial-flights-to-qatar/
Egypt resumes commercial flights to Qatar Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The first Egyptian flight to Qatar in more than three years took off Monday from Cairo following a milestone agreement between the two Arab nations to resume relations. The official Egyptian TV announced that EgyptAir flight number MS935 left Cairo International Airport to Doha, with 38 passengers on board. On Thursday, EgyptAir, the national flagship carrier, decided to operate a daily flight to Doha starting Monday, two days after Egypt's Ministry of Civil Aviation lifted a three-and-half-year airspace ban on the Gulf country. The decision came days after Egypt signed the Al-Ula declaration at the 41st Gulf Cooperation Council Summit, which ended a boycott on Qatar by the Arab quartet, which includes Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. ■

3 - Australia's tourism industry calls for more government support
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/australias-tourism-industry-calls-for-more-government-support/
Australia's tourism industry calls for more government support Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Margy Osmond, the chief executive of the Tourism and Transport Forum, said on Tuesday that the industry has "no hope" of recovery while Australia's borders remain closed. "Essentially your average Chinese visitor to Australia probably spends 8,500 Australian dollars (about 6,551 U.S. dollars) while they're here. Your average Aussie who heads off for a holiday is probably spending about 1,500 Australian dollars (about 1,156 U.S. dollars)." "Make no mistake, while international borders remain closed, we have no hope of recovery." Her comments came one day after Brendan Murphy, Department of Health Secretary, revealed that "substantial border restrictions" would likely remain in place for "most" of 2021. In response, Ormond called for the federal government to announce support for the tourism industry beyond the planned end of the JobKeeper wage subsidy scheme in March. "The government is going to have to think very seriously about how it supports this industry for the next couple of years, not just the next couple of months, if it wants to have a tourism industry when we actually reopen our international borders," she said. However, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg on Monday again ruled out any extension to JobKeeper saying the temporary scheme had served its purpose during the worst of the pandemic in Australia. "I'm confident that the key pillars of our economic response are in place," he said. ■

4 - Quebec's real estate market performed well with historic sales records
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/quebecs-real-estate-market-performed-well-with-historic-sales-records/
Quebec's real estate market performed well with historic sales records Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The Quebec Professional Association of Real Estate Brokers (QPAREB) has just released its residential real estate market statistics for the province of Quebec, based on the real estate brokers’ Centris provincial database. In total, 112,476 residential sales transactions were concluded in 2020 in the province of Quebec. This represents a 17 per cent increase compared to 2019. It was also the highest number of sales ever registered since the real estate brokers’ Centris system began compiling market data in the year 2000. By property category, single-family homes stood out with a significant 18 per cent increase in sales across the province. Sales of plexes and condominiums also registered strong increases of 17 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively. Among the province’s metropolitan areas, Quebec City (+28 per cent), Sherbrooke (+22 per cent) and Gatineau (+15 per cent) registered the largest increases in sales. Overall, sales in regions outside of the metropolitan areas experienced an even more dramatic increase in sales (+31 per cent), all property categories combined. More specifically, several small urban resort areas registered phenomenal sales increases in 2020, including the agglomerations of Charlevoix (+94 per cent), Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts (+64 per cent), Mont-Tremblant (+59 per cent) and Sainte-Adèle (+57 per cent). Active listings There was an average of 39,848 active listings on the Centris system in Quebec in 2020, a 29 per cent drop compared to 2019. This was the fifth consecutive annual decrease in active listings. The median price of single-family homes in Quebec stood at $295,000 in 2020, up 13 per cent compared to 2019. The median price of condominiums also registered a notable increase, rising by 11 per cent to reach $272,000. The median price of plexes (2 to 5 dwellings) remained relatively stable compared to 2019, inching up by 1 per cent to reach $425,000. Market conditions tightened in the vast majority of areas of the province. Many agglomerations located outside of the metropolitan areas experienced the most rapid tightening of market conditions in favour of sellers. Selling times across the province shortened compared to 2019: for all property categories combined, it took an average of 86 days for a property to sell (-11 days). ■

5 - Bulgarians, Romanians will pay more than other EU citizens for UK seasonal work visas
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/bulgarians-romanians-will-pay-more-than-other-eu-citizens-for-uk-seasonal-work-visas/
Bulgarians, Romanians will pay more than other EU citizens for UK seasonal work visas Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The UK government has extended a seasonal workers pilot programme, first launched in 2019, for an additional year. It has also expanded the programme, with 30,000 visas set to be made available for those wanting to come and work on UK farms for a period of up to six months in 2021. The government says that these workers will play a vital role in helping horticulture growers pick and package their produce, whilst reducing their reliance on migrant labour as the country comes to terms with its painful exit from the EU. However, the high price of the permits – 244 UK pounds – may be far beyond many potential short-term workers, especially those from the east of Europe. What’s more, while the citizens of most EU countries – as well as Turks and Macedonians – are offered a 55 UK pounds reduction, Bulgarians, Estonians, Lithuanians, Romanians and Slovenians are not. ■

6 - Iran exports over 93,000 tons of agricultural products, $344m worth of non-oil product to Iraq
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/iran-exports-over-93000-tons-of-agricultural-products-344m-worth-of-nonoil-product-to-iraq/
Iran exports over 93,000 tons of agricultural products, $344m worth of non-oil product to Iraq Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Iran exported more than 93,000 tons of various types of agricultural products (summer crops), valued at $43,138,000, to neighboring Iraq via Mehran International Border since the beginning of the current year. Speaking in an interview with IRNA on Sat., Rouhollah Gholami the Director-General of Ilam Customs Office said trade and business activities were resumed with Iraq at Mehran International Border after about three and a half months of hiatus at this border caused by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Trucks carrying Iranian export and commercial goods are monitored daily from Mehran international border to Iraq after carrying out customs formalities he said, adding, “All of these trucks are monitored and inspected seriously before exiting from the border in health and sanitary terms.” Due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, health quarantines are currently active at Mehran border, so that health teams are present at the border to screen and monitor infected people and take preventive measures to combat the disease, he emphasized.   Elsewhere in his remarks, he pointed to the non-oil products exported to neighboring Iraq and added, “About $344 million worth of non-oil products were exported from Mehran Border to Iraq in the first nine months of the current year (from March 21 to Dec. 22), showing a hike as compared to the same period of last year.” Construction materials, fresh fruits and vegetables, plastic and industrial products, glassware, home appliances and metal & steel products were of the main products exported from Iran to Iraq via Mehran Border in this period, the director general added. ■

7 - London-style black cabs to hit the road in Dubai
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/londonstyle-black-cabs-to-hit-the-road-in-dubai/
London-style black cabs to hit the road in Dubai Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   A fleet of London-style “black cabs” will be rolled out on the streets of Dubai. The emirate’s Roads and Transport Authority said the sleek line of taxis – a hybrid design using electricity and fuel – will hit the road next month. The trial use of the eye-catching vehicles, featuring the famous black colour and semi-curved shape of taxis across much of Britain, will be managed by Dubai Taxi Corporation. The service will be available at Dubai International Airport during the trial period. Dubai’s new range of taxis will have spacious interiors, with room for six seats in a separate cabin from the driver. The design is well served to meet the needs of people with disabilities. The taxis are fitted with a satellite-based navigation system, voice command, forward-collision warning, blind-spot monitoring and lane departure warning software, in addition to a Wi-Fi network. The London taxi has a dual engine for better control of the vehicle under different climate conditions. It also has accelerated braking system and a battery that can be recharged in only 30 minutes. The news was announced by Mattar Al Tayer, director-general of the RTA, during a visit to the Dubai Taxi Corporation. ■

8 - Pakistan opens bids for 20 onshore blocks for grant of Petroleum Exploration Rights
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/pakistan-opens-bids-for-20-onshore-blocks-for-grant-of-petroleum-exploration-rights/
Pakistan opens bids for 20 onshore blocks for grant of Petroleum Exploration Rights Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Directorate General of Petroleum Concessions has publicly opened bids for 20 onshore blocks for grant of Petroleum Exploration Rights through open bidding at Petroleum House, Islamabad. According to a press release of Ministry of Energy, the minimum investment to be carried out by the Exploration and Production companies in these blocks for prospecting will be over 71 million dollars in three years. The auction of new oil and gas blocks is part of the incumbent government strategy to revive exploration and production activities in the country which had been ignored by previous governments. ■

9 - Highlights: January 11, 2021 - January 16, 2021
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/highlights-january-11-2021-january-16-2021/
Highlights: January 11, 2021 - January 16, 2021 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Events of the last week. Amazon expands investment in Metro Detroit, creates thousands of new jobs Amazon announced its continued investment in the metro Detroit area with five new buildings to support operations closer to customers. ...  Carnival Corporation & plc reports huge Q4 loss and security incident on two brandsCarnival Corporation & plc provided preliminary financial information for the fourth quarter ended November 30, 2020....  The Line to provide 380,000 jobs in Saudi ArabiaSaudi Crown Prince and board chairman of NEOM, Mohammed bin Salman, unveiled THE Line project within NEOM on Jan. 10, 2021....  Ford shuts all plants in BrazilFord Motor Company announces it will serve customers in the South America region with a portfolio of exciting connected and increasingly electrified SUVs, pickups and commercial vehicles sourced from Argentina, Uruguay and other markets, as Ford Brazil ceases production operations in 2021....  VOXX International Q3 net sales increased 82.6%VOXX International Corporation yesterday announced financial results for its fiscal 2021 third quarter ended November 30, 2020....  Development of new F.N.B.'s multi-use office tower in Pittsburgh will create hundreds of jobsF.N.B. Corporation will enter into a joint venture with Pittsburgh Arena Real Estate Development LP and the Buccini/Pollin Group to develop the FNB Financial Center, a 26-story, 547,888-square-foot office tower in Pittsburgh, Pa., which will create 160 new, high-paying jobs....  Shake Shack Q4 sales declined 17.4%, will open tens of ShaksShake Shack today announced preliminary unaudited results for the fiscal fourth quarter ended December 30, 2020 ahead of presenting at the 23rd Annual ICR Conference today....  Telefonica sells mobile phone masts to American Towers for $9.41 billionSpanish telecom company Telefonica said on Wednesday it agreed to sell its mobile phone masts in Europe and Latin America to U.S.-based telecom infrastructure operator American Towers for 7.7 billion euros ($9.41 billion) in cash....  Couche-Tard offers $19.7 billion for Carrefour, France not happyCanada's Couche-Tard said in a statement on Wednesday that it's offering 20 euros ($24.35) a share to acquire France's biggest supermarket chain, Carrefour....  Qualcomm acquires chip startup Nuvia for $1.4 billionQualcomm yeterday announced that its subsidiary, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NUVIA for approximately $1.4 billion before working capital and other adjustments....  Bluestem Brands more than doubles Georgia presence in Putnam County, creates 130+ jobsBluestem Brands will expand their distribution center in Putnam County, Georgia, more than doubling their presence in the state and delivering over 130 full-time jobs to Eatonton....  Acorda Therapeutics sells INBRIJA manufacturing operations to Catalent for $80 millionAcorda Therapeutics two days ago announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its INBRIJA manufacturing operations in Chelsea, Massachusetts to Catalent for $80 million in cash....  Lidl cheapest supermarket in UK, Waitrose 60% more expensiveLidl has narrowly beaten Aldi to be named the cheapest supermarket of 2020, according to Which? analysis....  GM to invest nearly $800 million in Canada plant to manufacture electric vansSubject to ratification of a tentative 2021 agreement reached with Unifor and confirmation of government support, General Motors plans to bring production of its recently announced BrightDrop electric light commercial vehicle, the EV600, to its CAMI manufacturing plant in Ingersoll, Ontario....  JPMorgan Chase Q4 income strongly upJPMorgan Chase reported strong results in the fourth quarter of 2020, with net profit up 42% largely driven by credit reserve releases of $2.9 billion....  Turkey released $18.5b for 2021 investmentsTurkey released an investment program to fund 3,091 projects in 2021, according to information issued in the Official Gazette late Friday.... ■

10 - Emergency supply measure planned at UK ports
https://lite.poandpo.com/news_business/emergency-supply-measure-planned-at-uk-ports/
Emergency supply measure planned at UK ports Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 17, 2021   Empty trucks crossing the Channel to restock will be allowed to skip queues at key ports, as government concerns that the disruptions are set to worsen are mounting. Up to 300 trucks a day would be fast-tracked outside Dover and Folkestone, under a scheme open only to the largest supermarkets and their subcontractors, The Idependent reports. A government proposal stated that ‘We are proposing an emergency contingency measure... to expedite the return of empty food lorries from the UK to the EU where they can be restocked with supplies’. The proposal has been sent to industry groups by the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs – which warned ‘the potential for further disruption remains high’. It was revealed as Liz Truss, the trade secretary, rebuffed Labour calls to assess the economic harm from the Christmas Eve trade deal – which independent analysts have put at about 4.5 per cent of GDP. Ms Truss said it was time to “move forward”, despite the government publishing economic impact assessments for much-smaller ‘rolled over’ deals with the likes of Moldova and North Macedonia. Ian Wright, director of The Food and Drink Federation, told MPs that suppliers remained “clueless” about some of the practical implications of a deal agreed “very, very late”. “All members of the food supply chain have had very little time to get to grips with the provisions of the agreement and are still getting to grips with them,” he said. ■

3 - https://lite.poandpo.com/politics

1 - U.S. urges Australia to abandon news payment plan for tech giants
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/us-urges-australia-to-abandon-news-payment-plan-for-tech-giants/
U.S. urges Australia to abandon news payment plan for tech giants Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The United States has urged Australia to abandon its plan to force Google and Facebook to pay media outlets for their news content, saying there could be "long-lasting negative consequences" for consumers and companies. It will apply to Facebook's "News Feed" and Google searches, prompting the digital firms to threaten to limit the services they offer Australians. In a submission to an Australian Senate inquiry in the draft legislation, the Office of the US Trade Representative called it a "burdensome" plan that will "exclusively target" two American companies "without having first established a violation of existing Australian law or a market failure". "The US government is concerned that an attempt, through legislation, to regulate the competitive positions of specific players in a fast-evolving digital market, to the clear detriment of two US firms, may result in harmful outcomes," the submission says. "There may also be long-lasting negative consequences for US and Australian firms, as well as Australian consumers." The submission, dated January 15, argues the plan's mandatory arbitration process to determine compensation for news businesses is "fundamentally imbalanced" in their favour, as news production costs must be considered but not the costs incurred by digital platforms. It also says the world-first rules "could raise concerns with respect to Australia's international trade obligations" by excluding foreign media from the compensation scheme. ■

2 - Morocco bans travel from 4 more states over COVID variant
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/morocco-bans-travel-from-4-more-states-over-covid-variant/
Morocco bans travel from 4 more states over COVID variant Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Morocco has banned air travel from four more countries as of Tuesday after the detection of the first case of the more contagious variant of the novel coronavirus. The Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the ban includes Brazil, Australia, Ireland and New Zealand. Rabat has earlier banned travel from the UK, Denmark and South Africa over the variant. On Monday, the Moroccan Health Ministry confirmed the first imported case of the virus variant in a Moroccan passenger coming from Ireland. ■

3 - France, Germany and UK urge Iran not to produce uranium metal
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/france-germany-and-uk-urge-iran-not-to-produce-uranium-metal/
France, Germany and UK urge Iran not to produce uranium metal Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The governments of France, Germany and the United Kingdom, are deeply concerned by Iran’s announcement that it is preparing to produce uranium metal. "Iran has no credible civilian use for uranium metal. "The production of uranium metal has potentially grave military implications. "Under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran committed to not engaging in production of uranium metal or conducting research and development on uranium metallurgy for 15 years. "We strongly urge Iran to halt this activity and return to compliance with its JCPOA commitments without further delay if it is serious about preserving the deal." ■

4 - Ireland: Government seeks approval, want 1.5 million people to receive COVID jab
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/ireland-government-seeks-approval-want-15-million-people-to-receive-covid-jab/
Ireland: Government seeks approval, want 1.5 million people to receive COVID jab Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Cabinet is set to seek approval for a major vaccine deal which would see GPs and Pharmacists across the country giving the life saving jab. Health Minister Stephen Donnelly is set to seek approval from Cabinet which see a payment of €60 for each patient vaccinated made to members of the Irish Medical Organisation and the Irish Pharmacy Union. The State would foot the cost of the vaccine deal which is said to cost around €91 million and would see some 1.5 million people receiving the vaccine. Doctors and pharmacists are primarily expected to administer the Oxford/AztraZeneca vaccine as it does not have to be kept at very low temperatures unlike the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. The deal covers two doses for each member of the public vaccinated. ■

5 - Pre-departure testing extended to almost all passengers to New Zealand
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/predeparture-testing-extended-to-almost-all-passengers-to-new-zealand/
Pre-departure testing extended to almost all passengers to New Zealand Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   To further protect New Zealand from COVID-19, the New Zealand government is extending pre-departure testing to all passengers except Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific Islands, COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins said on Tuesday. As required, all travelers will need to present a negative testing result within 72 hours of the scheduled departure time. The change will come into force for all flights arriving in New Zealand after 11:59 p.m. local time (1059 GMT) next Monday, to minimize disruption for those passengers with imminent departures. Other countries will be considered for exclusion if their situations change, Hipkins said in a statement. "As we signaled last week, given the high rates of infection in many countries, most global air routes are of critical concern for the foreseeable future," Hipkins said. "New Zealand is currently in a good position with no community cases, but we continue to take action with very specific steps to further strengthen our borders in response to what we're seeing overseas," he said. The expansion of Day 0/1 testing at Managed Isolation and Quarantine to all passengers to New Zealand - except for those coming from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific Islands - is now in operation. All travelers are still required to complete 14 days of mandatory isolation, including routine Day 3 and Day 12 tests. "New Zealand already has some of the most stringent border protection measures in the world," Hipkins said. From Feb. 8, all passengers arriving in New Zealand except those from exempted countries without evidence of a negative approved test or medical certificate would incur an infringement offense fee or a fine not exceeding 1,000 New Zealand dollars (713 U.S. dollars). ■

6 - New York Governor Cuomo requests to purchase COVID-19 vaccines directly from Pfizer
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/new-york-governor-cuomo-requests-to-purchase-covid19-vaccines-directly-from-pfizer/
New York Governor Cuomo requests to purchase COVID-19 vaccines directly from Pfizer Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Governor Andrew M. Cuomo yesterday issued a letter to Pfizer Chairman and CEO Dr. Albert Bourla asking for the ability to purchase COVID-19 vaccines directly from Pfizer, as the company is not bound by commitments that Moderna made under Operation Warp Speed.  "Dear Dr. Bourla:  On behalf of all New Yorkers, I want to thank you and the teams at Pfizer and BioNTech for your hard work to develop a safe, effective vaccine for COVID-19. The last ten months have been exceptionally dark — but your efforts have provided a bright light at the end of the tunnel and hope for a better future. "It is abundantly clear that these vaccines are the weapons that will finally win the war against COVID-19. "But with hospitalizations and deaths increasing across the country this winter, we are in a footrace with the virus, and we will lose unless we dramatically increase the number of doses getting to New Yorkers. "After myself and seven other governors called on the Trump Administration to release more doses, HHS Secretary Alex Azar said that relief was on the way. "To date, however, the federal government has not acted on that promise — in fact, New York will receive just 250,000 doses this week, 50,000 fewer than the week prior.  Because you are not bound by commitments that Moderna made as part of Operation Warp Speed, I am requesting that the State of New York be permitted to directly purchase doses from you. "The distribution of any doses obtained directly from Pfizer will follow the rigorous guidance the State has established, while enabling us to fill the dosage gap created this week by the outgoing federal administration. "All of this will further our goal to vaccinate 70 to 90 percent of New Yorkers as soon as possible and reach herd immunity.  "You no doubt understand the challenges New York and other states face. Shifting guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention drove the number of New Yorkers eligible and prioritized for the vaccine from 5 million to 7 million practically overnight. The federal administration essentially opened up a floodgate while cutting our supply — leading to confusion, frustration, and dashed hopes.  "Pfizer is a New York company - something I am greatly proud of. The company's decision to opt out of Operation Warp Speed, which the Biden administration plans to overhaul, puts it in a unique situation that could help us save lives right here in New York. I am happy to discuss this matter further with you." ■

7 - Guaido accused of blocking vaccines, Venezuela sends COVID-19 aid to Brazil
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/guaido-accused-of-blocking-vaccines-venezuela-sends-covid19-aid-to-brazil/
Guaido accused of blocking vaccines, Venezuela sends COVID-19 aid to Brazil Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Self-declared “Interim President” Juan Guaido has allegedly refused to use funds under his control to purchase additional Covid-19 vaccines for the country. According to documents seen by Reuters, Guaido’s team turned down overtures from the Venezuelan Central Bank (BCV) to free up US $120 million worth of frozen assets in the UK. The BCV reportedly proposed bypassing the US blockade and purchasing UK-produced vaccines through the Gavi financing program, which looks to boost poorer countries’ vaccination programmes via the World Health Organization’s (WHO) COVAX system. “The impact of the pandemic in Venezuela has worsened, and President [Nicolas] Maduro’s government has been unable to effect payment to Gavi to secure access to Covid-19 vaccines by any other means,” a statement from BCV lawyers Zaiwalla & Co. reads. In response, Guaido’s legal counsel Arnold & Porter allegedly responded that “our clients cannot consent” to the proposal. Guaido’s team has since claimed that the response is a fake. Venezuela also took action to assist in an escalating Covid-19 emergency in the Brazilian city of Manaus over the weekend under the banner of “Latin American solidarity before anything else!” The isolated city in the bordering Amazonas State, which has difficult communications with the rest of Brazil but houses 2 million people, has been overrun by Covid-19 in recent days, with Reuters reporting that its healthcare system is “at breaking point” and that mass graves are being dug. AFP has quoted on-the-ground scientists as saying that “oxygen tanks have run out and some hospital units have become a type of suffocation chamber.” In response, 107 Venezuelan and Brazilian doctors from Caracas’ Salvador Allende Latin American Medical School (ELAM) were dispatched south of the border on Saturday to assist, in coordination with regional Brazilian authorities. Alongside the so-called Simon Bolivar Medical Brigade, Venezuela also sent 136,000 litres of oxygen - equivalent to 14,000 individual tanks – as part of the humanitarian land convoy. The convoy, which will travel 1500 kilometres from Venezuela’s Puerto Ordaz to Manaus, is expected to arrive on Monday night or Tuesday morning. ■

8 - EU plans to start spending huge recovery fund in months
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/eu-plans-to-start-spending-huge-recovery-fund-in-months/
EU plans to start spending huge recovery fund in months Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The European Union (EU) plans to start raising and allocating in the next few months the main part of the 750-billion-euro (906-billion-U.S.-dollar) recovery fund, designed to bail out the bloc's economies hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, EU Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni said Monday. He told reporters following a Eurogroup ministerial meeting that the roll-out of the Recovery and Resilience Facility, the bulk of the massive fund, would be key to address the imbalances and inequalities that were deepened by the public health crisis. Gentiloni said national plans will be received from the second half of February and it will take the European Commission two months to assess and approve them, plus another month for the European Council to adopt the final implementing decision on each plan. While it is a tight timetable, "it is doable," said Gentiloni. He also said that all plans, to be submitted by the EU member states, should present the right balance between investments and reforms. ■

9 - Ukraine to build bridge to Moldova at its own expense
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/ukraine-to-build-bridge-to-moldova-at-its-own-expense/
Ukraine to build bridge to Moldova at its own expense Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021    "One of the projects that we will start immediately will be the construction of a bridge over the River Dniester in the Yampil-Cosauti area and the corresponding highway that will connect Kyiv and Chisinau. "And not just connect, but it will allow almost 5 hours to get by car from Kyiv to Chisinau via the new bridge,"  said Zhovkva, commenting on the statement of President Volodymyr Zelensky about the new highway between Kyiv and Chisinau. "Funding for the construction of this bridge will be carried out from the Ukrainian government budget. "I would like to note that the construction of the entire bridge crossing will be done at Ukraine’s expense. Ukravtodor (State Agency of Automobile Roads of Ukraine) is already working on the appropriate regulatory support for this financing. "Ukraine will also build part of the highway from Kyiv up to the bridge. There, most of it has already been built, restored or reconstructed. The rest of construction has to be finished. Moldova will build its own part of this highway," he said. The construction of a bridge in Yampil instead of the ferry was promised by the previous Ukrainian government. Currently, the only bridge which connects Ukraine and Modlova is located at Mohyliv-Podilskyi – Otaci border crossing. During the visit of the Moldovan President Maia Sandu, Volodymyr Zelensky spoke about "an ambitious goal", the construction of a modern highway that will connect Kyiv and Chisinau. Sandu said that the countries would like to improve the infrastructure on Chisinau - Soroca- Yampil – Kyiv road, which will create a transport corridor, making it the fastest route from the central region of Ukraine to the Central and South-Eastern Europe. ■

10 - Biden to block Trump's plan to lift COVID-19 European travel restrictions
https://lite.poandpo.com/politics/biden-to-block-trumps-plan-to-lift-covid19-european-travel-restrictions/
Biden to block Trump's plan to lift COVID-19 European travel restrictions Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   U.S. President-elect Joe Biden plans to quickly extend travel restrictions barring travel by most people who have recently been in much of Europe and Brazil soon after President Donald Trump lifted those requirements effective Jan. 26, a spokeswoman for Biden said. Trump signed an order Monday lifting the restrictions he imposed early last year in response to the pandemic - a decision first reported Monday by Reuters - after winning support from coronavirus task force members and public health officials. Soon after Trump’s order was made public, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki tweeted “on the advice of our medical team, the Administration does not intend to lift these restrictions on 1/26.” She added that “With the pandemic worsening, and more contagious variants emerging around the world, this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel.” Until Biden acts, Trump’s order ends restrictions the same day that new COVID-19 test requirements take effect for all international visitors. Trump is due to leave office on Wednesday. ■

4 - https://lite.poandpo.com/companies

1 - Turkey bans ads on Twitter, Periscope, Pinterest
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/turkey-bans-ads-on-twitter-periscope-pinterest/
Turkey bans ads on Twitter, Periscope, Pinterest Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Turkey banned social media sites that have failed to hire local representatives from advertising Monday, according to the Official Gazette. Last October, a new social media law came into effect in the country which obligates social media sites that are accessed over a million times per day in Turkey to hire a local representative. As part of the law, Turkey has fined social media platforms 40 million Turkish liras ($5.43 million) so far under the first two phases of the process. After the fines, advertisement activities are banned, and in the last two phases, the country will limit bandwidth by 50% and up to 90%, respectively. If the social media firms appoint local representatives, 75% of the fine will be waived and the bandwidth reduction will end. The Official Gazette said Turkish advertisements cannot be posted on Pinterest, Twitter and Periscope. If enterprises that are active in Turkey breach the ban, they will face a number of charges. Popular social media firms Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, TikTok, VK and DailyMotion have agreed to appoint local representatives so far. ■

2 - Marriott International continues Asia Pacific growth with nearly 100 properties to open
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/marriott-international-continues-asia-pacific-growth-with-nearly-100-properties-to-open/
Marriott International continues Asia Pacific growth with nearly 100 properties to open Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Marriott International, Inc. continues to expand its portfolio, expecting to open 100 properties in Asia Pacific in 2021, bringing more brands and experiences to new destinations for guests across the region. In 2020, the company celebrated its 800th milestone hotel opening in the region with 75 properties added to its portfolio during the year, representing more than one opening per week across the region. Nearly 27,000 rooms were added to the region's development pipeline in 2020 alone, in addition to the signing of Marriott's largest branded residences project with close to 4,200 units. Greater China has led the global recovery to date, and the company expects to soon celebrate its 400th hotel in Greater China and its 50th hotel in Shanghai with the opening of JW Marriott Shanghai Fengxian in spring 2021. With this hotel opening, Shanghai has the distinction of reaching this important milestone for the company in Asia Pacific. According to a joint report by consultancy Bain & Co. and Alibaba's Tmall Luxury unit, Mainland China is on track to become the world's largest personal luxury market by 2025 even seeing year-over-year domestic growth in 2020 despite the pandemic. To leverage this trend, Marriott International continues to strengthen its luxury portfolio with expected openings in 2021 such as W Changsha, W Xiamen, St. Regis Qingdao and The Ritz-Carlton Reserve Jiuzhaigou. With the anticipated opening of the Ritz-Carlton Reserve, China will be the first country in Asia Pacific to house all of Marriott International's luxury hallmarks. The company is introducing more travel experiences across its brand portfolio, including at popular leisure destinations such as Mianyang in the Sichuan province with the expected opening of Sheraton Mianyang, as well in the culturally-rich destination of Nanjing with the anticipated opening of The Westin Nanjing Resort & Spa. In Japan, W Hotels is expected to debut with the opening of W Osaka, while The Luxury Collection is also slated to debut in Australia with the opening of The Tasman in Hobart. The iconic Ritz-Carlton brand is expected to celebrate its debut in the leading resort destination of Maldives in early summer, bringing legendary service to the picture-perfect archipelago. Further expanding Marriott's presence in breathtaking resort destinations, the JW Marriott brand is slated to bring its warm luxury experience to Jeju Island in South Korea with the planned opening of JW Marriott Jeju in late 2021. The company's signature wellness brand, Westin, is also highly anticipated to debut in one of India's top beach destinations, Goa, this summer. To support domestic travel in Japan, the company plans to open six additional Fairfield by Marriott hotels throughout 2021 along 'Michi-no-Eki' roadside stations aimed at revitalizing the country's local sightseeing spots. Japan expects to have more than 30 Fairfield by Marriott hotels by the end of 2023. Touted as one of the best cities in the world for art, culture, music and food, Australia's Melbourne is expected to see the opening of the country's second W Hotel with W Melbourne in spring and the opening of Melbourne Marriott Hotel Docklands in early 2021. ■

3 - All States Ag Parts acquires Yesterday's Tractor
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/all-states-ag-parts-acquires-yesterdays-tractor/
All States Ag Parts acquires Yesterday's Tractor Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   All States Ag Parts announced in a press release today the acquisition of Yesterday's Tractor Co. All States Ag Parts now operates 21 locations in North America including 16 tractor and combine salvage yards. "Over the past two decades Yesterday's Tractor has established itself as the premier resource for antique tractor repair and restoration information," said John Dyke, CEO of All States Ag Parts, "We want to continue to serve the community that Yesterday's Tractor has built and expand the current parts offering to include used parts in addition to expanding the remanufactured and new part lines." Dyke said the former owner, Kim Pratt, will remain in place during the transition period as a consultant. All employees of Yesterday's Tractor will be offered employment with All States Ag Parts. "We're excited to know that the resources and community Yesterday's Tractor has developed will be in good hands with a company like All States Ag Parts" said Pratt, "In fact, All States is looking to expand the parts selection offered which will benefit our community even more." The Port Townsend, WA location will continue to operate under the Yesterday's Tractor name. ■

4 - Abu Dhabi Agthia acquires majority stake in Jordan's Nabil Foods
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/abu-dhabi-agthia-acquires-majority-stake-in-jordans-nabil-foods/
Abu Dhabi Agthia acquires majority stake in Jordan's Nabil Foods Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Abu Dhabi-based food and beverage company Agthia acquired a majority stake in Jordan's Nabil Foods, marking its first foray into the processed food industry. The deal is expected to provide "cost and revenue synergy opportunities" while providing Agthia access to immediate new revenue streams, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. Agthia will acquire a 60 per cent stake in Nabil Foods from industrial holding company ADQ in exchange for a convertible instrument and a further 20 per cent stake from Ideal Holding, bringing the total size of its shareholding to 80 per cent in the food processing firm. The price at which the instrument will convert into shares in Agthia is Dh5.50 per share, implying an equity value of Dh394 million ($1m) for ADQ's stake in Nabil Foods. "The acquisition of Nabil Foods, once completed, would represent another step towards meeting our ambitions," said Alan Smith, chief executive of Agthia Group. "It would be an accretive acquisition for both the business and our shareholders, an expansion into a growing sector with high-quality product offerings and a mutual commitment to innovation aligned with evolving consumer trends." ■

5 - Encavis closes fund EIF II with €480 million
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/encavis-closes-fund-eif-ii-with-480-million/
Encavis closes fund EIF II with €480 million Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   German Encavis Asset Management AG (Encavis AM) has closed its special bank fund EIF II, distributed exclusively by Bayern LB, with a placement volume of €480 million ($579 million). According to the company, more than 50 credit institutions are involved. Encavis AM is managing the portfolio development and operation of renewable power plants. So far, wind and solar parks have been realized in Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and France. The total installed capacity of the fund is succeeding 350 MW. In total, this special fund for banks will be able to realize an investment volume in wind and solar parks of »significantly more than one billion Euros,« says the company. ■

6 - Air Canada to resume Boeing 737 MAX commercial operations
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/air-canada-to-resume-boeing-737-max-commercial-operations/
Air Canada to resume Boeing 737 MAX commercial operations Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Air Canada said that following Transport Canada’s (TC) Airworthiness Directive and January 20, 2021 lifting of the existing Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) for the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, it will be resuming Boeing 737 MAX commercial operations on February 1, 2021. “We are very confident the nearly two-year regulatory process undertaken by Transport Canada and other regulators worldwide ensures the utmost safety of the Boeing 737 MAX fleet from nose to tail, and from wing to wing.  "As part of Air Canada’s multi-layered approach to reinforcing and enhancing safety, our internal experts have also worked with independent specialists to conduct assessments of the aircraft and our operating procedures,” said Captain Murray Strom, Vice President, Flight Operations at Air Canada. “In addition to implementing all required updates and modifications to the aircraft, Air Canada has gone beyond by equipping its fleet with additional safety-enhancing features that exceed required regulatory standards. These measures are backed by our industry-leading flight operations, the extensive, comprehensive training programs our pilots and maintenance engineers regularly undergo, and our industry-renowned flight data analysis.  "Customers can therefore be assured that every crew member operating our fleet and the many employee teams working behind the scenes have an unwavering commitment to safety. We look forward to welcoming you onboard,” concluded Captain Strom. The 737 MAX will gradually return to Air Canada’s North American route network as the airline continues to optimize its narrow body fleet. All flights are operated in accordance with Air Canada’s biosafety protocols, centred around the Air Canada CleanCare+ program.  Beginning Feb. 1, Air Canada’s 737 MAX will operate select flights between: Toronto and: Halifax, Montreal, Ottawa, Edmonton, Winnipeg. Air Canada will continue to deploy the fleet on routes that are best suited for its range and capacity. ■

7 - Vietravel Airlines ready for commercial flights
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/vietravel-airlines-ready-for-commercial-flights/
Vietravel Airlines ready for commercial flights Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The Vietnam Travel Aviation Company Limited (Vietravel Airlines), Vietnam’s sixth carrier, will open ticket sales for commercial flights starting from 1:00 on January 19. Passengers can purchase tickets at its website, www.vietravelairlines.com. To commemorate the occasion, the new carrier will offer 50,000 tickets at VND 0 (excluding taxes and fees) from January 19 to 25 or until tickets are sold out. General Director of Vietravel Airlines Vu Duc Bien said that its first commercial flights are scheduled to take off on January 25, with most routes seeing two flights a day. The airline will increase flights and expand its network in the time to come, especially during the upcoming Lunar New Year (Tet) holiday. Vietravel Airlines recently added a second Airbus A321ceo to its fleet, with a third expected to arrive on January 21. ■

8 - Masdar acquires 50% stake in two wind farms in Poland
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/masdar-acquires-50-stake-in-two-wind-farms-in-poland/
Masdar acquires 50% stake in two wind farms in Poland Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Masdar acquired a 50 per cent stake in two wind farms in Poland, further expanding the Abu Dhabi clean energy company's portfolio. The 37.4 megawatt Mlawa Wind Farm in Mazowieckie in northern Poland and the 14 megawatt Grajewo Wind Farm in Podlaskie in the country's north-east will be developed in a joint venture with Taaleri SolarWind II Fund, Masdar said in a statement on Monday. Taaleri SolarWind II Fund is managed by Helsinki-based renewable energy investor Taaleri Energia, which is Masdar's joint venture partner in central and eastern Europe. “As one of the world’s leading renewable energy companies, Masdar is proud to enter into the Polish market, which offers considerable scope for further growth and diversification of our renewable energy portfolio,” Ahmed Al Awadi, director of business development and investment at Masdar's clean energy arm. “We look forward to supporting Poland’s renewable energy efforts, and to further strengthening our partnership with Taaleri Energia.” With a combined installed capacity of 51.4 megawatts, the projects will together produce 192 gigawatt-hours of electricity annually –enough to meet the energy needs of approximately 90,000 households. They will also help offset 146,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide each year, Masdar said. Work on the wind farms, which are currently under construction, is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. Project financing is being provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and DNB Polska, the statement added. ■

9 - Barilla acquires significant stake in Pasta Evangelists
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/barilla-acquires-significant-stake-in-pasta-evangelists/
Barilla acquires significant stake in Pasta Evangelists Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Italian food company Barilla has strengthened its UK presence by acquiring a majority stake in Pasta Evangelists, a specialist in direct-to-consumer (D2C) fresh pasta and sauces. The investment in Pasta Evangelists was made by Barilla through its venture firm BLU1877. Financial details of the deal have not been disclosed by both companies. The acquisition is said to be in line with Barilla’s international growth plan, especially in the UK, and the company intends to invest in new marketing and ales approaches, with a preferred digital platform to interact with consumers. Barilla Group CMO Gianluca Di Tondo declared: “The Covid-19 crisis has changed consumer behaviour, the way people work, and the way products are distributed. “The consumer demand for freshly made, premium food is growing, as well as the boom in e-commerce and subscription-based consumer products. We are excited to expand our family with a brand that underlines these major trends. The UK is at the forefront of both.” Since 2016, Pasta Evangelists has been engaged in the delivery of fresh, restaurant-quality pasta across the UK. The firm currently distributes its pasta and sauces across Amazon, Ocado, Marks & Spencer and a physical refreshment stand in the Harrods Food Hall. According to the deal, Pasta Evangelists will operate as an independent business entity while continuing to be led by its founder and CEO Alessandro Savelli, as well as co-founders Chris Rennoldson and Finn Lagun. Savelli said: “We are hugely proud to be partnering with Barilla, an iconic, family-owned business. With Barilla’s support, we look forward to taking Pasta Evangelists to the next level, including through internationalisation and scaling up our production whilst staying true to our core values: freshness, craftsmanship, and italianità, or Italianness. “As an entrepreneur, and as an Italian, for me, this is a dream come true.” ■

10 - Keystone XL: We will be first powered by renewable energy. Biden: I will close that
https://lite.poandpo.com/companies/keystone-xl-we-will-be-first-powered-by-renewable-energy-biden-i-will-close-that/
Keystone XL: We will be first powered by renewable energy. Biden: I will close that Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   TC Energy Corporation yesterday announced a new sustainable energy initiative for the Keystone XL Project. The company will achieve net zero emissions across the project operations when it is placed into service in 2023 and has committed the operations will be fully powered by renewable energy sources no later than 2030. This announcement comes after an extensive period of study and analysis, and as part of the company’s ongoing commitment to sustainability, thoughtfully finding innovative ways to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, while providing communities with reliable energy needed today. U.S. president-elect Joe Biden has indicated plans to cancel the Keystone XL pipeline permit via executive action on his first day in office, sources confirmed to CBC News on Sunday. A purported briefing note from the Biden transition team mentioning the plan was widely circulated over the weekend after being shared by the incoming president's team with U.S. stakeholders. The words "Rescind Keystone XL pipeline permit" appear on a list of executive actions supposedly scheduled for Day 1 of Biden's presidency. ■

5 - https://lite.poandpo.com/who-is-promoted

6 - https://lite.poandpo.com/economy

1 - Myanmar attracts over $348 million in foreign investment in Q1
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/myanmar-attracts-over-348-million-in-foreign-investment-in-q1/
Myanmar attracts over $348 million in foreign investment in Q1 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Myanmar attracted investment capital of over 348 million USD from permitted foreign enterprises in the first quarter of the 2020-2021 fiscal year starting October, according to figures of the Directorate of Investment and Company Administration (DICA). In the reviewed quarter of the current fiscal year, the Myanmar Investment Commission (MIC) gave the go-ahead to 23 foreign investment enterprises. During the period, the manufacturing sector attracted most investment capital with over 158 million USD, followed by the hotel and tourism sector with more than 81 million USD and the electricity power sector, over 48 million USD, the DICA figures showed. ■

2 - China's foreign trade hits record high in 2020
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/chinas-foreign-trade-hits-record-high-in-2020/
China's foreign trade hits record high in 2020 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   China's total goods imports and exports expanded 1.9 percent year-on-year to 32.16 trillion yuan (about $5 trillion) in 2020, hitting a record high despite a worldwide slump in shipments, official data showed on January 14. Exports rose 4 percent, while imports went down 0.7 percent, according to the General Administration of Customs (GAC). In December alone, exports surged by 10.9 percent year-on-year in yuan terms. China emerged from the global economic and trade challenges in 2020 as the world's only major economy to have registered positive growth in foreign trade in goods, GAC spokesperson Li Kuiwen told a news conference. During the first 10 months of last year, the country's foreign trade and exports accounted for 12.8 percent and 14.2 percent of the world's total, respectively, both reaching historic highs, Li said, citing data from the World Trade Organization and available national statistics. ■

3 - U.S. weekly jobless claims soar to nearly 1 million
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/us-weekly-jobless-claims-soar-to-nearly-1-million/
U.S. weekly jobless claims soar to nearly 1 million Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   The U.S. Labor Department on Thursday reported that initial jobless claims in the United States soared to 965,000 last week, showing severe disruption to the labor market recovery by COVID-19 spikes.  In the week ending Jan. 9, the number of citizens filing for unemployment benefits jumped by 181,000 from the previous week's downwardly revised level of 784,000, as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). ■

4 - German economy contracts 5 pct
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/german-economy-contracts-5-pct/
German economy contracts 5 pct Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   Germany's gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 5.0 percent year-on-year in 2020 in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis) said on Thursday. "After a ten-year growth period, the German economy suffered a deep recession," Destatis noted. However, according to provisional calculations, the economic slump was less severe than during the 2009 financial crisis, when Germany's economy shrank by 5.7 percent. The contraction was much smaller than many experts had feared in the course of the year, said German Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy Peter Altmaier at a press conference on Thursday. Albert Braakmann, who heads Destatis' National Accounts section, said the German economy "has come relatively well through the crisis" in 2020 compared with many other nations, German news agency dpa reported. Altmaier is confident that the economy will return to growth in 2021 despite the pandemic, saying that Europe's biggest economy will recover this year and "there will be an upswing year," dpa said. The German government will continue to provide the necessary financial resources "to protect the German economy from an irreversible loss of substance," Altmaier stressed. However, the coronavirus pandemic left "clear traces" in almost all economic sectors in Germany last year, according to Destatis. Production was "severely scaled-down" both in the service sector and in industry. The country's industry -- excluding construction, which accounts for about a quarter of its overall economy -- saw output fall by 9.7 percent year-on-year. The economic output of the important manufacturing sector even fell by 10.4 percent. Despite the COVID-19-induced recession, online trade increased significantly. Another sector in Germany that could sustain its business during the pandemic was construction, where gross value added increased by 1.4 percent year-on-year. Germany's foreign trade, on the other hand, was "massively impacted" by the crisis, Destatis noted. Exports and imports of goods and services fell for the first time since 2009. German exports decreased by 9.9 percent in price-adjusted terms and imports decreased by 8.6 percent. In 2020, the German labor force shrank by 477,000 people, or 1.1 percent, year-on-year, ending a 14-year surge in employment due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to preliminary calculations, Germany's general government budget closed last year with a financing deficit of 158.2 billion euros (191.8 billion U.S. dollars). "It was the first deficit since 2011 and the second highest deficit since the German reunification," Destatis noted.  ■

5 - Argentina sees 36 pct inflation
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/argentina-sees-36-pct-inflation/
Argentina sees 36 pct inflation Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   Argentina ended 2020 with a cumulative inflation rate of 36.1 percent year on year, after registering the biggest price increases of the year in December, the National Institute of Statistics and Censuses (INDEC) reported Thursday. The South American country, which has been in a recession since mid-2018, managed to slow down the pace of inflation after it reached 53.8 percent in 2019 and 47.6 percent in 2018, said the agency. However, according to INDEC data, prices of food, clothing and footwear, as well as recreational activities and transportation, rose by more than 30 percent from 2019. December saw the year's highest monthly inflation, with a 4 percent increase in the price of goods and services. According to Argentine financial analysts, inflation in 2020 was reined in by price containment policies applied during the novel coronavirus pandemic, so that 2021 could see prices rise even more. ■

6 - Slovakia: November turnover in industry increased
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/slovakia-november-turnover-in-industry-increased/
Slovakia: November turnover in industry increased Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 14, 2021   After seventeen months of decline, turnover in industry recorded a year-on-year growth by 3,7% for the first time. In construction, the year-on-year turnover lag moderated. In information and communication, turnover decreased in double digits, a drop was the largest in the last four years. Year-on-year, lower turnover of up to 5 % was recorded in transportation and storage, as well as in selected market services. In November, after a long-term decline, industry again recorded a year-on-year turnover growth. It was influenced by higher turnover mainly in the manufacture of transport equipment by 10,5 %, but also in manufacture of metals by 5,7 %, which increased year-on-year for the first time since March 2019. Turnover in construction continued to decline by more than 10% year-on-year, but a slump in November was the lowest in the last eight months. As for the other activities, turnover in the information and communication sector deteriorated significantly, as turnover in computer programming and information services dropped the most since 2016. A growth rate of turnover in gambling and betting activities slowed down, and the real estate activities were also successful. A largest turnover drop in travel agencies and tour operator activities persisted even in November, turnover reach less than a third of the volume from November 2019. Turnover developed favourably in most sectors at the month-on-month level; compared to October 2020, it increased by 6,9 % in construction, by 3,3 % in industry and by 0,5 % in selected market services. A decrease was in information and communication by 4,6 % and in transportation and storage by 0,5 %. For the first time since May 2019, turnover in industry increased by 3,7 % year-on-year in November.  A year-on-year growth was achieved by a total of five of the 16 monitored components of industry – industries or special groupings of sectors. The most significant increase was recorded in manufacture of transport equipment by 10,5 %, turnover in this sector did not fall below last year's level for the fifth month in a row. For the first time since March 2019, turnover in manufacture of metals also increased by 5,7 %, turnover in manufacture of electrical equipment also increased significantly by 7,7 %, in manufacture of rubber and plastic products by 3,6 % and in manufacture of chemicals by 6,8 %, year-on-year. Turnover decreased mainly in other manufacture by 12 %, manufacture of computer products by 6,9 %, manufacture of textiles and leather by 12,3 %, manufacture of coke and petroleum products by 5,3 % and in manufacture of wood products by 2,2 %. A drop in construction turnover continued in November 2020, but its pace slowed down, with a year-on-year decline of 11,7 % being the slowest in eight months. Turnover in transportation and storage decreased by 3,4 % at current prices in November. The total decrease was mostly due to a lower year-on-year turnover in warehousing and support activities for transport by 8,7 %, a year-on-year decrease was also in air transport and in land transport and transport via pipelines. However, turnover in postal and courier service activities developed favourably, the November's growth of 8,8 % in 2020 was one of the highest one. A decline in turnover in information and communication deepened significantly in November 2020, reaching a double-digit value for the first time in four years. A year-on-year decrease of 13,8 % was the largest since November 2016. Turnover dropped in all activities, most significantly in computer programming by 14,7 % and in information service activities by 30,8 %, in both cases these were the largest decreases since 2016. In selected market services, turnover decreased by 4,3 % year-on-year in November. Since April 2020, a slump in turnover in travel agencies and tour operator activities was the slightest one in November, although its turnover did not reach even a third of the volume from November 2019.  Turnover of legal and accounting activities also decreased significantly, a decrease of 15,5 % was, on the contrary, the largest from the beginning of 2020. A growth rate of turnover in gambling and betting activities slowed to 4,4 %, while an increase in the previous two months exceeded 25 %, and real estate activities were also successful. Development in eleven months of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 Since the beginning of the year, compared to the same period last year, turnover in industry decreased by 10,3 %, of which in the manufacture of transport equipment by 13,8 %. Turnover in construction decreased by 12,4 % year-on-year in eleven months. Turnover in transportation and storage decreased by 9 % year-on-year, the total decrease was mostly due to a drop in warehousing and support activities for transportation. A  year-on-year increase in turnover was reached in postal and courier service activities and in water transport. Since the beginning of 2020 to the end of November 2020, turnover in information and communication decreased by 1,6 %. A decline was in all activities except computer programming, which were the only one to maintain a year-on-year growth. In eleven months of 2020, turnover in selected market services dropped by 5,6 % year-on-year, a decrease was recorded in most activities, the largest was in travel agencies and tour operator activities. ■

7 - Brazil records 4.52 pct inflation rate in 2020, says IBGE
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/brazil-records-452-pct-inflation-rate-in-2020-says-ibge/
Brazil records 4.52 pct inflation rate in 2020, says IBGE Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 13, 2021   Brazil's inflation rate in 2020 climbed to 4.52 percent, above the government's target of 4 percent and the highest since 2016, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) reported Tuesday. Food saw the biggest price hikes last year, along with beverages, rising by 14.09 percent, the largest increase since 2002, IBGE revealed. "There was a global increase in food prices in 2020 amid the pandemic," IBGE noted. The products that marked the biggest price increases were soybean oil by 103.79 percent and rice by 76.01 percent. Other goods and services that contributed to inflation were housing with 5.25 percent increase, electricity with 9.14 percent and household goods with 6 percent. The only item to see a price drop was clothing, falling by 1.13 percent. The Brazilian government has set an inflation target in 2021 of 3.75 percent, with a 1.5 percent margin of tolerance. ■

8 - Vietnam GDP growth 2.91 percent
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/vietnam_gdp_growth_2_91_percent/
Vietnam GDP growth 2.91 percent Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 10, 2021   Vietnam posted GDP growth of 2.91 percent in 2020 thanks to its solid control of outbreaks and timely support to both enterprises and local people. Like other countries, the pandemic had a devastating impact on the country’s economy and society, with tens of millions of workers affected and business closures at a record high. Despite the formidable challenges, however, Vietnam has been viewed as a bright spot in the bleak picture that is the global economy. The country was one of the 10 economies with the highest GDP growth in 2020. Many international institutions spoke highly of Vietnam’s economic growth and its efforts to bring the pandemic under control. ■

9 - U.S. dollar to be untied from Lebanon's economy
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/us-dollar-to-be-untied-from-lebanons-economy/
U.S. dollar to be untied from Lebanon's economy Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 10, 2021   The governor of the Central Bank of Lebanon, Riad Salameh, announced the untying of the national currency from the dollar and its value would now depend on an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Salameh thus revealed a rupture of the economic relationship dating from 1997 through which the Lebanese pound maintained an equalization with the US banknote. At present, there is a depreciation of 80 percent of the national currency with respect to the U.S. currency, which will increase while the government is not installed. According to the bank executive, the worst crisis in decades will worsen if an Executive is not formed urgently to implement structural reforms, after which financial aid promised by the international community will flow. The scarcity of dollars in the market led to the closure of operations in banks in that currency. Thus, savers, even if their deposits were in foreign currency, could not touch the greenbacks and if anything, they could extract them in Lebanese pounds at the official rate of one per 1,500, while the exchange used another rate. Currently, the Central Bank maintains a rate of 1,500 Lebanese pounds per dollar and on the black market it is trading at an average of 8,400. As foreign exchange was required for wholesale or retail purchases, merchants passed on the cost of their merchandise to customers, who saw their purchasing power decline to miserable levels. To all this must be added a foreign debt of over 90 billion dollars, 170 percent of the gross domestic product, unemployment at almost 30 out of 100 Lebanese and the Covid-19 pandemic that causes a notorious paralysis of economic activity. ■

10 - Goldman Sachs raises U.S. GDP forecast for 2021
https://lite.poandpo.com/economy/goldman-sachs-raises-us-gdp-forecast-for-2021/
Goldman Sachs raises U.S. GDP forecast for 2021 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 8, 2021   Goldman Sachs revised up U.S. economic growth forecast by 0.5 percentage points for 2021, as the Democratic blue wave makes it more likely to see a larger stimulus package adopted in the first quarter of the year.  The U.S.' GDP is now expected to grow by 6.4% this year, up from the previous estimate of 5.9%, the American multinational investment bank and financial services company said in a report Thursday. After Democrats have won the two Senate seats in Georgia runoff elections on Wednesday, giving them the control of the Congress, and Joe Biden winning the White House on Nov. 3 elections, they are "likely to pass further fiscal stimulus in the first quarter," the report said. Goldman Sachs said it expects a relief package of around $750 billion, which would include $300 billion in stimulus checks for jobless Americans. The investment firm also forecasts the U.S. unemployment rate decreasing to 4.8% at the end of this year, to 4.3% at the end of 2022, and later to 3.9% and 3.6% for the end of 2023 and 2024, respectively. ■

7 - https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings

1 - Bank of America Q4 profit drops
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/bank-of-america-q4-profit-drops/
Bank of America Q4 profit drops Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Bank of America Corporation reported a profit for fourth quarter that dropped from the same period last year. The company's earnings came in at $5.21 billion, or $0.59 per share. This compares with $6.75 billion, or $0.74 per share, in last year's fourth quarter. The company's revenue for the quarter fell 10.1% to $20.10 billion from $22.35 billion last year. ■

2 - Logitech Q3 net income increased
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/logitech-q3-net-income-increased/
Logitech Q3 net income increased Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Logitech International reported that its net income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 significantly increased to $382.52 million or $2.22 per share from $117.53 million or $0.69 per share in the prior year. "This quarter's record results demonstrate the strength of our portfolio, addressing long-term growth trends in remote work and education, video collaboration, esports, and digital content creation," said Bracken Darrell, Logitech president and chief executive officer. Quarterly non-GAAP earnings per share grew 192 percent to $2.45, from $0.84 in the same quarter a year ago. Sales for the third-quarter were $1.67 billion, up 85 percent in US dollars and 80 percent in constant currency, compared to the prior year. Analysts expected revenue of $1.23 billion for the quarter. The company raised its fiscal Year 2021 annual outlook to between 57 and 60 percent sales growth in constant currency, and about $1.05 billion in non-GAAP operating income. The company's previous outlook was between 35 and 40 percent sales growth in constant currency, and a range of $700 million to $725 million in non-GAAP operating income. ■

3 - Citigroup Q4 net income declined 7%
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/citigroup-q4-net-income-declined-7/
Citigroup Q4 net income declined 7% Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   Citigroup reported that its fourth quarter net income declined 7% from the prior-year period, driven by the lower revenues, an increase in expenses, and a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by the lower cost of credit. Revenues decreased 10%, primarily reflecting lower revenues in Global Consumer Banking, Institutional Clients Group, and Corporate/Other. Fourth quarter earnings per share was $2.08, compared to $2.15, a year ago Net income was $4.6 billion compared to $5.0 billion, prior year. Effective tax rate was 20% compared to 12%. Fourth quarter revenues were $16.5 billion compared to $18.4 billion, a year ago. Operating expenses were $10.7 billion, increased 2% from previous year. "Given the Federal Reserve decision regarding share repurchases as we have excess capital we can return to shareholders, we plan to resume buybacks during the current quarter," Michael Corbat, Citi CEO, said. ■

4 - Wells Fargo Q4 net income rose to $2.99 billion
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/wells-fargo-q4-net-income-rose-to-299-billion/
Wells Fargo Q4 net income rose to $2.99 billion Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   Wells Fargo reported that its fourth quarter net income rose to $2.99 billion or $0.64 per share from $2.87 billion or $0.60 per share in the prior year. Provision for credit losses decreased $823 million, predominantly due to a $757 million reserve release due to the announced sale of our student loan portfolio, as well as lower net charge-offs. Net interest income decreased 17% year-over-year to $9.28 billion, primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates, lower loan balances primarily due to weak demand and elevated prepayments, lower investment securities balances, and higher mortgage-backed securities premium amortization. Non-interest income slightly declined to $8.65 billion from $8.66 billion last year. Quarterly total revenues for the quarter decreased to $17.93 billion from $19.86 billion in the previous year. The company's board approved an increase in the company's authority to repurchase common stock by an additional 500 million shares, bringing the total authorized amount to 667 million common shares. ■

5 - JPMorgan Chase Q4 income strongly up
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/jpmorgan-chase-q4-income-strongly-up/
JPMorgan Chase Q4 income strongly up Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   JPMorgan Chase reported strong results in the fourth quarter of 2020, with net profit up 42% largely driven by credit reserve releases of $2.9 billion. The Group said it ended the year with a CET1 ratio of 13.1% and capital above $200 billion, providing with meaningful capacity to further invest in business and communities, while returning capital to shareholders. Fourth quarter earnings per share was $3.79 compared to $2.57, last year. The company noted that its fourth quarter results included $2.9 billion of credit reserve releases Firmwide which resulted in $0.72 increase in earnings per share. Net income was $12.14 billion compared to $8.52 billion, a year ago. Fourth quarter net revenue on a reported basis was $29.2 billion, compared to $28.3 billion, previous year. Net revenue - managed - was $30.16 billion compared to $29.17 billion. Analysts expected revenue of $28.7 billion, for the quarter. Fourth quarter noninterest revenue was $16.8 billion, up 13%. Net interest income was $13.4 billion, down 7%, predominantly driven by the impact of lower rates as well as balance sheet mix, largely offset by balance sheet growth and higher net interest income in CIB Markets. Noninterest expense was $16.0 billion, down 2%. The provision for credit losses was a net benefit of $1.9 billion, compared to an expense of $1.4 billion in the prior year driven by reserve releases in the current quarter. "While positive vaccine and stimulus developments contributed to these reserve releases this quarter, our credit reserves of over $30 billion continue to reflect significant near-term economic uncertainty and will allow us to withstand an economic environment far worse than the current base forecasts by most economists," Jamie Dimon, Chairman and CEO, said. ■

6 - Bank of South Carolina unaudited earnings $6,460,631
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/bank-of-south-carolina-unaudited-earnings-6460631/
Bank of South Carolina unaudited earnings $6,460,631 Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   The Bank of South Carolina Corporation announced unaudited earnings of $6,460,631 or $1.17 and $1.14 basic and diluted per share, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2020 – a decrease of $857,802 or 11.72% from earnings for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $7,318,433 or $1.33 and $1.31 basic and diluted per share, respectively. Earnings for the three months ended December 31, 2020 decreased $38,323 or 2.16% to $1,735,206 compared to $1,773,529 for the three months ended December 31, 2019. Returns on average assets and average equity for the year ended December 31, 2020 were 1.28% and 11.93%, respectively, compared with 2019 returns on average assets and average equity of 1.66% and 14.86%, respectively. Fleetwood S. Hassell, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "In spite of the ongoing pandemic, dramatic reduction in interest rates, and the operating expenses of a new banking office, we were able to meet and then exceed our profit plan for the year. 2020 was a most unusual and operationally challenging year; yet, we met each disruption and roadblock head on to prove our resiliency and agility. The combined efforts of all of our employees resulted in more accounts being opened in 2020 than 2019 and the third most profitable year in thecompany's 33+ year history. The company's financial performance continues to be strong. Our employees remain focused on service and we look forward to meeting the challenges of 2021." ■

7 - Delta Air Lines Q4 adjusted pre-tax loss $2.1 billion
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/delta-air-lines-q4-adjusted-pretax-loss-21-billion/
Delta Air Lines Q4 adjusted pre-tax loss $2.1 billion Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 14, 2021   Delta Air Lines today reported financial results for the December quarter and full year 2020. December Quarter Financial Results  Adjusted pre-tax loss of $2.1 billion excludes nearly $1 billion of items directly related to the impact of, and our response to, COVID-19, including charges associated with employee pay and benefit changes, which were offset by the benefit of the CARES Act payroll support program (PSP) grant recognized in the quarter. Adjusted operating revenue of $3.5 billion declined 69 percent on 62 percent lower sellable capacity (see Note A) versus the prior year period. Total operating expense, which includes $930 million of items described above, decreased $5.2 billion over prior year period.  Adjusted for those items and third-party refinery sales, total operating expense decreased $4.6 billion or 47 percent in the December quarter compared to the prior year period, driven by lower capacity- and revenue-related expenses and strong cost management across the business. During the December quarter cash burn (see Note B) averaged $12 million per day, marking an approximate 90 percent reduction in cash burn since late March. At the end of 2020, the company had $16.7 billion in liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and undrawn revolving credit facilities. Full Year 2020 Financial Results  Adjusted pre-tax loss of $9.0 billion excludes a net of $6.6 billion of items primarily related to the impact of, and our response to, COVID-19. Adjusted operating revenue of $15.9 billion declined 66 percent on 61 percent lower sellable capacity versus the prior year. Total operating expense, which includes $4.3 billion of COVID- related and other items, decreased $10.8 billion over prior year. Adjusted for those items and third-party refinery sales, total operating expense decreased $16.0 billion or 40 percent in 2020 compared to the prior year. ■

8 - Blackrock Q4 earnings $1.55 billion
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/blackrock-q4-earnings-155-billion/
Blackrock Q4 earnings $1.55 billion Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 14, 2021   Blackrock reported a profit for its fourth quarter that advanced from last year. The company's earnings totaled $1.55 billion, or $10.02 per share. This compares with $1.30 billion, or $8.29 per share, in last year's fourth quarter. Excluding items, Blackrock Inc. reported adjusted earnings of $1.57 billion or $10.18 per share for the period. The company's revenue for the quarter rose 12.6% to $4.48 billion from $3.98 billion last year. ■

9 - Infosys Q3 profit up 12.6%
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/infosys-q3-profit-up-126/
Infosys Q3 profit up 12.6% Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 14, 2021   Infosys reported that its third-quarter profit attributable to owners of the company rose 12.6% to $705 million from $626 million last year. Quarterly earnings per share grew to $0.17, from $0.15 in the prior year. Operating profit was $893 million, up 25.6% from the previous year. Quarterly revenues grew 8.4% year-on-year to $3.516 billion, while it was up 6.6% in constant currency. The company raised its fiscal year 2021 operating margin guidance to a range of 24.0%-24.5% from the prior estimation of 23%-24%. The company also raised its annual revenue growth guidance to a range of 4.5%-5.0% in constant currency basis from the prior outlook of 2%-3% in constant currency. ■

10 - Limoneira Q4 net revenue down
https://lite.poandpo.com/earnings/limoneira-q4-net-revenue-down/
Limoneira Q4 net revenue down Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 13, 2021   Limoneira two days ago reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. For the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, total net revenue was $29.8 million, compared to total net revenue of $36.5 million in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year. Agribusiness revenue was $28.6 million, compared to $35.3 million in the fourth quarter of last fiscal year. Other operations revenue was similar to the prior fiscal year at $1.1 million in the fourth quarter. For the fiscal year, ended October 31, 2020, revenue was $164.6 million, compared to $171.4 million for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. Operating loss for the fiscal year 2020 was $19.0 million, compared to operating loss of $5.5 million for the fiscal year 2019. Net loss applicable to common stock, after preferred dividends, was $16.9 million for the fiscal year 2020, compared to net loss of $6.4 million for the fiscal year 2019. Net loss per diluted share for the fiscal year 2020 was $0.96, compared to a net loss per diluted share of $0.37 for the fiscal year 2019. ■

8 - https://lite.poandpo.com/oped

1 - Is America going to lose its superpower status?
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/is-america-going-to-lose-its-superpower-status/
Is America going to lose its superpower status? Surjit Singh Flora ▼ | September 28, 2020   As the U.S. presidential election approaches, there seems to be no progress. Taking liberal democracy as an example, people question whether they will respect the people's fate that appeared in November. People are worried that it will provoke violence that has increased polarization. In fact, this situation is beyond control in some respects. For example, Washington's strategy for dealing with coronavirus. So careless that no one expects the United States to respond. The coronavirus that broke out in Wuhan, China in January, became a global epidemic by the end of February. Without effective treatment, there is no choice but to shut down the entire economy. As a result, the unemployment problem in the United States today is as dire as the Great Depression. It is feared that nearly one million small enterprises in the United States are on the verge of closure. Simultaneously, the conflict with China on the trade and technology front has become a fundamental clash of global politics in which there is no prospect of peace. Corona is still making waves in the United States. There is no prospect of relief from the virus. The political leadership seems helpless in mitigating the damage caused by this epidemic. Under such circumstances, the image of the world leader that the United States has created for itself seems to be disappearing. The catastrophe has exposed America's weakness as a welfare state, and its helpless policies have exacerbated the current crisis. About 43 percent of people in the United States do not have access to health insurance. These people do not even have access to government health facilities. In such a situation, this calamity has become a significant problem for them. Admit it was not enough for America's difficulties. When the Corona Crisis was on the rise, police brutality sparked racial tensions in the United States. The death of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American man, in May has provoked strong reactions in the United States. This led to a flood of protests, violence, riots, and police action. According to a survey, about 55 percent of Americans believe that police violence is a major problem. Simultaneously, 58 percent support the idea that racism is one of the most significant issues in the world today. Similarly, two-thirds of Americans feel that their country is heading in the wrong direction. A country that speaks to the rest of the world on governance and human rights and considers itself a world leader seems to be failing to address its internal problems. Protests continue in the United States today. This is further polarizing American society. In such a difficult situation, the political leadership does not seem keen to unite the people and the country. In fact, it is an election period, and it is important to please one's vote bank. That is why U.S. President Donald Trump is trying to portray it as a law and order problem. He attacked his political opponents with such harsh words that only a dead Democrat is really a good Democrat. Trump is also making frivolous remarks about his Democratic rival, Joe Biden. Their frustration is probably since they are lagging behind Biden in many polls. This means that most Americans are unhappy with Trump's policies. That’s why they seem to be leaning towards Biden. At present, the reputation of American institutions is in jeopardy. Police brutality has led to the deaths of people belonging to minority communities, and discrimination against African Americans in corona treatment has fueled protests. The issue of race is at the heart of American society and the system. As far as handling internal affairs is concerned, the United States, which has often looked down on other countries, in this regard, today suffers from an internal lack of solidarity for which no solution is currently in sight. Because of Trump, sooner or later The US will soon lose its status as a superpower because it will stop being the center for innovation. For the past few years, economic wealth has been created around technology companies. Amazon. Google, Apple, Tesla, Uber. Before that, Oracle, IBM, Intel, Qualcomm, eBay, Yahoo. What do these companies have in common? Immigrants and sons of immigrants founded them. This is not rhetoric. In the past few years, many entrepreneurs who decided against coming to the US because of its new Trump's anti-immigration policies and honestly, because America is losing its status as a great country when a clown and his circus run it. As a result, new innovation centers are popping up all over the world from Amsterdam to Guadalajara. The next-generation Microsoft, Tesla, and Amazon might be Indian, Swedish, or Chinese companies. It's happening right now. The next Nikola Tesla, and Werner von Braun and Albert Einstein’s are not welcome in America anymore. The US is no longer a country that welcomes bright minds who want to work hard to change the world. The change is happening right now, and at least part of it is irreversible. The consequences of the coronavirus epidemic, the increasing socio-economic diversity, the rise of nationalism, and the combination of racial tensions will shape the United States in their own way. Some see it as the end of American supremacy in world affairs. True or not, the United States has an immense potential to get itself out of trouble. BIOGRAPHY Surjit Singh Flora is a veteran journalist and freelance writer. He is a popular media commentator on current affairs. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

2 - The challenge of Africa is not the same as Qatar’s. It is a lot harder
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/the-challenge-of-africa-is-not-the-same-as-qatars-it-is-a-lot-harder-2122019950/
The challenge of Africa is not the same as Qatar’s. It is a lot harder Robert Brooks ▼ | December 2, 2019   Commenting on 'Africa can’t duplicate Qatar’s LNG experience but it can learn', Robert Brooks, PhD, founder of RBAC, Inc., says it's an 'interesting article, but not quite accurate or complete.' But even more importantly, Qatar has a very different culture and completely different demographics than the African countries the author describes. Although I don’t have deep knowledge of Qatar, I believe it is similar to the Emirates – a small indigenous population with a large mostly guest worker population (about 8,000,000) doing all the manual labor for its actual citizens (about 1,000,000). In the UAE, 3 million bbl / day oil production in Abu Dhabi produces enough revenue to dole out enormous welfare to the citizens, keeping them happy under a reasonably benign ruling class. I just did a bit more research and found that the population of Qatar includes 330,000 Qataris who make up 10.5% of the total population. This is not what you are going to see in any African country. In Africa you have large populations of desperately poor citizen workers and unemployed, a small but growing middle class of merchants and entrepreneurs, and an even smaller elite of corrupt kleptocratic “leaders”. In addition, their large populations are divided up into tribal groups that seem to be eternally at war with each other. The “leaders” are usually from one of these tribes, which then gets preferential treatment compared with the others.  Nigeria is a truly unfortunate example of this. One of the richest countries in the world in regard to resources, its leaders have never seriously agreed to create the conditions for ALL of its various tribes and their members to participate in the equitable and sustainable exploitation of those resources for all of their benefit. Other West and Central African countries are not so blessed with resources (except perhaps Congo), but have similar situations regarding poverty and exploitation. Many of them have engaged in civil wars over the past couple of decades, but except for the Boko Haram in Nigeria and surrounding countries and some seemingly never-ending trouble in Congo, this has largely subsided. As a result of this relative peace, various oil and gas developers have begun to explore the potential for these resources in places other than Nigeria where development began long ago. So the opportunity for economic development based on local gas-to-power and liquefied natural gas exports is definitely there. The important question is whether the leaders of these countries will set aside their historically corrupt ways and the producers will resist the temptation to make corrupts deals just to get the deals done. Together they could create wealth that could be successfully invested in the sustainable development of these countries while still yielding an acceptable return for the producers. This is the challenge of Africa. It is not the same as Qatar’s challenge or that of the Emirates. It is a lot harder. But I hope and pray that the leaders of these African countries and the producers can take an enlightened attitude into their negotiations and together create the basis for bringing their countries out of poverty and into full participation in the global 21st century economy. After all they’ve been through, these people deserve that opportunity.  BIOGRAPHY Dr. Brooks is the Founder of RBAC Inc. He is an applied mathematician, energy economist, and software systems designer with over thirty-five years of experience in developing decision support systems for business and government. Dr. Brooks has earned degrees from the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Texas at Austin, and MIT. His doctoral research involved development of the first large-scale linear programming model of the North American natural gas pipeline grid. After receiving his PhD from MIT, Dr. Brooks developed specialized natural gas grid models for use by DOE, FERC, and EPRI. He led technical development of President Carter’s National Energy Transportation Study, identifying probable bottlenecks in US energy transportation infrastructure over the next 20 years. Dr. Brooks designed the gas network model for Logistic Solutions’ GRIDNET nominations management system. For RBAC, Dr. Brooks developed the GPCM Natural Gas Market Forecasting System, the first pipeline-specific monthly, long-term model of the entire North American natural gas transportation and storage system. Since its introduction in 1997, GPCM has become the industry standard modeling software for natural gas market analysis in North America, licensed to North America’s largest and most prominent energy producers, infrastructure developers, utilities, and consultants. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

3 - Africa can’t duplicate Qatar’s LNG experience but it can learn
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/africa-cant-duplicate-qatars-lng-experience-but-it-can-learn-23112019543/
Africa can’t duplicate Qatar’s LNG experience but it can learn NJ Ayuk ▼ | November 23, 2019   As I got into the process of writing my recent book Billions At Play, The future of African Energy and doing deal, the story of Qatar intrigued me. Its success is contagious and African LNG producers can learn from this country. Qatar learned that it possessed truly huge reserves of natural gas in 1971, when Royal Dutch/Shell discovered the North Dome structure, also known as the North field. At the time, though, neither Shell nor Qatar’s government had a great deal of interest in developing the site. Their focus was on crude oil, which was then making the country very rich. As a result, nothing much happened at North Dome for more than a decade. Shell did not actively pursue development work there, and neither did Qatar General Petroleum Co. (QGPC, now known as Qatar Petroleum or QP), which was the beneficiary of Doha’s nationalization of the oil and gas industry in 1977. Qatari crude production started to decline after 1979 as the country’s largest oil fields matured. In turn, international oil companies (IOCs) began to lose interest in signing service contracts with QP, since they did not believe Qatar’s aging reserve base warranted massive long-term investments. These developments did not have much immediate impact, since crude prices were rising enough to keep revenues high. But in the 1980s, oil prices sank and brought oil revenues down along with them. As a result, Qatar’s government began looking for new ways to generate income. Gas was an obvious option, since global demand was rising and national reserves were ample. Officials in Doha began to draw up plans for monetizing production from the North field, which is now known to contain at least 450 trillion cubic feet (13 trillion cubic meters) of gas in recoverable reserves. Eventually, they developed a three-phase plan that called for beginning with domestic sales and then proceeding to pipeline exports before finally launching marine exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). To implement the plan, they set up a joint venture known as Qatar Liquefied Natural Gas Co. Ltd. (Qatargas) between QP, BP (UK) and Total (France). The first phase, which provided for domestic gasification, was a relatively simple process due to the small size of Qatar’s population. But events in the late 1980s and early 1990s made the second phase, which called for the construction of an export pipeline capable of delivering up to 20 billion cubic meters per year to other member-states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), more difficult. There were multiple reasons for this. Doha floated proposals for alternative routes in the hope of drawing interest from markets outside the GCC, but to no avail. The failure of the pipeline gave Qatargas an opportunity to skip the second phase of the project and proceed directly to the third – namely, using production from the North field as feedstock for a gas liquefaction plant that could turn out LNG for export by tanker. At the same time, rising demand for gas in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan gave Qatar an incentive to focus on LNG. Additionally, BP made the decision to exit Qatargas, the venture formed to develop North. This cleared the way for the U.S. company Mobil (now part of ExxonMobil) to join the project. That facility brought its first 2 million ton per year production train on line in late 1996 and began commercial production and exports the following year. Since then, Qatar has continued to ramp up gas production and to expand its LNG industry. It has worked with foreign partners to build more gas liquefaction facilities and is now home to three LNG mega-trains with a combined production capacity of 77 million tons per year. These plants helped make Qatar into the world’s largest LNG producer in 2006, and they have kept the country at the top of the list ever since. Meanwhile, Doha decided last year to build another mega-train that will raise the figure to 110 million tons per year by 2024. Qatar operates the largest fleet of LNG tankers in the world, and its LNG goes to customers all over the world. In short, its LNG program has been a smashing success. The story of Qatar’s success is interesting in its own right. But does it have any deeper meaning? Could it serve as a template – that is, as a map that other gas-producing countries can use to blaze their own trails toward success? I believe it can. Specifically, I believe African gas producers pursuing LNG projects have a lot to earn from Qatar. They will have a better chance of maximizing their gains if they follow Qatar’s example. Qatar began looking into plans for launching LNG production less than a decade after nationalizing its own oil and gas industry. Even so, it had a clear understanding of the fact that it could not pursue this goal without outside help. More specifically, QP and the Qatari government knew they would need partners with plenty of cash, experience, and access to gas liquefaction technology. They also knew they would need partners that were willing to absorb the risks involved in opening up a new frontier. Africa’s future LNG producers like Senegal, Equatorial Guinea, Mozambique, Tanzania, Congo, Cameroon, South Africa, Nigeria and Angola will need help too. Like Qatar, they will need to pair up with IOCs that can help cover the costs of establishing a new sector of industry, that have experience in handling all of the physical and logistical complications of such projects, and that can supply the sophisticated technologies needed to compress and cool gas into a liquid state that can be transported by tanker. Also like Qatar, they will need investors that are ready to build this sector of the economy from the ground up (this last point is particularly important in countries such as Mozambique, Tanzania, Senegal and South Africa that are trying to launch LNG projects in short order after the first discoveries of gas.) Qatargas’ original plan called for starting small, with domestic gasification, and hen scaling up. But as noted above, efforts to move the pipeline phase of the project forward foundered due to unexpected obstacles. Instead of focusing on these obstacles, Qatargas decided instead to take a different approach. It accepted that its efforts to draw up new plans and engage in further negotiations had failed, and it moved on. It dispensed with the second phase of the project altogether and got to work on the third phase. And that marked the first step of Qatar’s journey to becoming the largest LNG producer in the world. This is an important lesson for Africa’s future LNG producers: sometimes the original plan simply doesn’t work out, even when all parties make good-faith efforts to resolve their differences. So, it’s time to try something different. It’s time to look for a new solution. Qatar can also teach African gas producers a thing or two about resource management. This is a crucial consideration for QP and its partners in Qatargas, since most of their feedstock comes from a single source – the North field. This field may be huge, but it is hardly inexhaustible. In fact, Doha imposed a moratorium on new development initiatives at North in 2005. The moratorium was not permanent. Qatar’s government lifted it in 2017, and QP responded by drawing up plans for the North Field Expansion (NFE) project and for the construction of new gas liquefaction facilities. In September of this year, the company said it had shortlisted several firms and invited to bid for the NFE contract. These events are significant because they demonstrate that Qatar wants to keep its LNG plants in business for a long, long time. They show that the country is willing to accept some short-term setbacks in order to ensure that its largest source of gas can remain in production over the long term. Africa can’t duplicate Qatar’s experience. But it can learn from Qatar’s example and create a little bit of its own luck. Hopefully, Africa can benefit from the fact that global demand for gas is still rising and will continue to do so for some time, even as more and more consumers pin their hopes on renewable energy. Now is certainly a good time to try –not least because LNG projects should also generate interest in gas-to-power projects and other African initiatives. The Gas Exporting Countries Forum’s meeting in Malabo Equatorial Guinea will be a good start. BIOGRAPHY  NJ Ayuk is an experienced oil and gas dealmaker who heads the Pan-African legal conglomerate Centurion Law Group and serves as executive chairman of the African Energy Chamber. He is a passionate advocate of the idea that oil and gas can help propel economic development in Africa, as detailed in his newly released book, Billions at Play: The Future of African Energy and Doing Deals. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

4 - When you’re a leader, business productivity means accomplishing what matters most
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/when-youre-a-leader-business-productivity-means-accomplishing-what-matters-most-29102019644/
When you’re a leader, business productivity means accomplishing what matters most Jas Darar ▼ | October 29, 2019   A lot of people in business are under the impression that the more things they do, the more productive they become. They look at their daily checklist and see a lot of items crossed off, and then they feel proud about themselves. Sometimes, it’s not just about the amount of work done, but the quality of work you’ve invested your time and energy on. What if the items on your checklist aren’t supposed to be there in the first place? That means you spent precious resources working on things that could’ve been spent on more pressing matters. Despite the number of tasks you’ve accomplished, you’ve essentially not accomplished that much at all. In my extensive experience as a Business Coach, I’ve worked with a lot of business owners, and one of the most predominant characteristic among them is that they lack the skill of determining what’s important or not, which causes them to waste their time and energy on trivial pursuits. To become truly productive, most business leaders need guidance. Below are some tips on how to make the most of your time in running your business. Optimise your to-do list You need to know how to prioritise to be productive. The problem with most to-do lists is that business leaders tend to line up the wrong activities. They tend to work on important issues that feel pressing rather than on where time can be most efficiently spent. Don’t just list things down; rank them according to priority. The worst thing you can do is list down something that someone else can do. What good will that bring? You’re a business leader, and you should be focusing on bigger things that keep your company afloat. Think of activities that only you could and should do, and make sure the direction is in the interest of the company. Learn to anticipate crunch time The true measure of a productive leader is his behavior under pressure. Some leaders fold, while some leader remain composed and collected. The difference? A productive leader knows how to anticipate the part of the day when it gets busiest. That way, he can spend off-peak house accomplishing things ahead of time, so as the pressure builds up, he doesn’t scramble and panic. Most effective leaders tackle their most difficult tasks first at the beginning of the day. Once they have that out of the way, they start working their way down the list with less pressing obligations. That saves them from anxiety whether something unexpected comes up. Know what problem you are trying to solve You’d be surprised how many business leaders can run around, working on something, but have actually lost sight of the problem they set out to solve in the first place. They key is to keep the problem front and center, thus exponentially increasing your effectiveness. If you have the problem in front of you, you become more focused and you start asking the right questions and come up with the right ideas. When a crisis arises, the first thing you need to do is to identify the problem. Give it a name. Write it on the board in big bold letters. That will keep you in orbit as you work towards coming up with a resolution with your team. Focus on outcomes, not actions Just as much as you need to focus on the problem, you also need to focus on outcomes. When you do that, you find the critical paths and the short-cuts. Whereas, when you focus on actions, you may end up wasting time on things but don’t necessarily achieve results that help solve the main problem. Immediately start asking yourself, “What’s the goal?” or “What’s the outcome?” and you will quickly find yourself getting clarity on the situation. It will realign your effort and energy in a more meaningful way and help you avoid unnecessary distractions. Always make it a team effort It’s always an uphill battle if you take on everything by yourself. Productivity doesn’t mean you don’t need the help of others. In fact, if you’re good at delegation, it makes you a more productive leader. That means you’re able to effectively identify which tasks are for your team and which ones are yours. You can achieve better team collaboration if you make an effort to involve them as early as possible. Collect their insights and have them sit in on important decisions that have to be made. Good communication helps them understand the bigger picture and as a result, they can envision what contribution they could make to achieve the goals. BIOGRAPHY Leaving behind a lucrative career in Sales and Customer Services in a variety of industries, Jas Darar joined ActionCOACH East Midlands as a Business Coach in 2007. After 7 successful years he then went on to set up REACH Business Coaching. Mr. Darar is an experienced campaigner and has an extremely successful track record in sales, marketing, customer services, retention and team building. In one business, he grew revenues by 830% in one year. Working in various industries has given Mr. Darar an understanding of the challenges and opportunities that exist for businesses in the East Midlands, whether they be small or large organisations. Mr. Darar’s experience is diverse with his career taking him through many industries, including wholesale, retail, the service industry, recruitment, banking, and telecommunications. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

5 - Fighting fraud from the top: Illegal activities have simple beginnings
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/fighting-fraud-from-the-top-illegal-activities-have-simple-beginnings-1292019760/
Fighting fraud from the top: Illegal activities have simple beginnings Ayanda Kotobe ▼ | September 12, 2019   Why do we stop at traffic lights? It's not because we are naturally attuned to seeing red as the order to stop. If that were the case, red dresses and apples wouldn't be as popular as they are! Red catches our attention, but we stop at a red light because everyone else does. Humans copy each other. It's often said that if you want someone to be more comfortable with you, mimic how they sit or stand. Psychologists call this ‘mirroring', but it doesn't just happen during social gatherings. Seeing someone drop a bit of trash or cutting a traffic light gives us a slight nudge into thinking it's okay. If they are doing it, maybe I can too. Fraud is at its essence the result of mirroring. It would be convenient to consider all fraudsters as hardened criminals who'd sell their granny if the price were right. But fraud investigators often point out that such activities have simple beginnings. The Enron scandal, so devastating that it destroyed an American energy giant, had its roots in some minor manipulations to meet earnings expectations. Yet when the people involved got away with that, they scaled up and even justified their actions as legitimate at least to themselves. This is why fraud prevention starts at the top. There has to be no tolerance among an organisation's leaders for fraud. When accountability and consequences are lacking, fraud will thrive. The culture of an environment, as well as its treatment of ethics and governance, will reflect management's attitude towards fraud. Leadership attitudes are fundamental, reinforced by internal controls to spot fraud. Illegal activities usually involve acts that siphon amounts from a business' coffers. These can include payroll fraud, writing double cheques for payments, skimming tax money or over-ordering1. A common fraud in South Africa and elsewhere is to overvalue a purchase and split the difference with the supplier. More recent activities include credit card fraud and bank scams. The Bankers Association of Botswana warned last year that fraudsters are becoming increasingly savvy about loopholes, especially technology ones, that organisations are not fixing fast enough. In all these examples, it only takes a few people to abuse the trust they earned. Sadly, it's the company that suffers when their wrongdoing is uncovered, usually because it became cataclysmic... These can be prevented by internal checks and structures to monitor governance and compliance. Companies should also create pipelines for concerned parties and whistle-blowers to relay their suspicions. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) sets out the following five components for an effective fraud prevention system2: control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information & communication, and monitoring. These work together to establish sound internal controls through directed leadership, shared values and a culture that supports accountability. Increasingly, more of these controls can be automated in modern companies, particularly where high transaction volumes take place. It's additionally effective to consolidate suppliers to a few that you know can be trusted and are serious about their integrity. Creating reliable procurement channels with those suppliers will help employees stick to legitimate activities. There is also no reason any more to be ignorant of a company's finances: even if you have accountants and other fiscal gatekeepers, it is possible with modern software services to generate ad hoc reports and scrutinise patterns using visualisation dashboards. At Kenya's major banks, employee fraud is often a greater risk than third-party fraud. Headline-grabbing South African frauds such as seen at Fidentia and Steinhoff were perpetrated by the very accountants meant to have policed such activities. It might sound as if the fight against fraud means reducing trust in employees. This isn't the case. Instead, it is about narrowing those gaps where fraud might take place, so as not to normalise such activities. The tone should start at the top, from leadership and management who embrace sound controls and good governance. Consequences must be enforced and felt. Everyone will eventually ignore a traffic light if they see enough people do this. In some countries, you can see traffic officers haplessly direct vehicles that ignore them. Are all those drivers criminals? In terms of traffic laws, yes. But did they start as criminals? No. And do they see their behaviour as bad? It's unlikely. Not until they are caught - and if it were business fraud, by then it might be too late for their employers. BIOGRAPHY Ayanda Kotobe is a qualified CA(SA) with approximately ten years of experience in the Auditing and Finance field. She completed her BCom Accounting Honours at the University of Johannesburg in 2009, qualifying as a Chartered Accountant in 2012. Ayanda began her career at Deloitte and Touche where she completed her articles and became an Audit Senior, and later an Audit Manager. In 2015, Ayanda moved to Barloworld Equipment where she fulfilled the role of Financial Manager for just under three years. More recently, Ayanda was promoted to Country Financial Director of Barloworld Equipment in Botswana where she was responsible for the full financial function of the company and led the Finance team in Botswana. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

6 - Premier of Ontario is singing 'Cut!' song while patients are in hallways
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/premier-of-ontario-is-singing-cut-song-while-patients-are-in-hallways-1972019464/
Premier of Ontario is singing 'Cut!' song while patients are in hallways Surjit Singh Flora ▼ | July 19, 2019   It seems that the fate of the beleaguered Premier Doug Ford was just a bit bigger than the need to improve the condition of patient's treatment in hallways. Ford said that the PC party would end hallway medicine within 12 months. At the time the government was formed last year, he also claimed that patients had to wait for five hours for a doctor to be seen. Perhaps he was not thinking of the location of Brampton's emergency patients having to wait for all night for a doctor, not just five hours. Now, there are around 1,000 patients in Ontario in hospital hallways at any given time. Ford assured Ontarians that they should expect that any patients in hallways will not be there for the next year. However, it will likely take longer than a year to end overcrowding in Ontario's hospitals despite Ford’s promise, the province’s health minister said Monday. Just days after Ford's declaration, Health Minister Christine Elliott downplayed his remarks, saying he was articulating the government's "wishes", but the problem is more complex than that. "The premier is expressing that we're trying to do it as quickly as possible," Elliot said. "While we hope that it will be within the next year, it may take a little bit longer." From both Premier Ford and Elliott's announcements, it seems the right-hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing, and the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Neither seems well informed about what they are doing.... all they are singing is one song. “Cut! Cut!! Cuttttt!!” As if cutbacks are going to create more beds. I guess Doug's idea of ending hallway healthcare means patients will be removed from hallways and placed in at the parking lots. Maybe he can explain in more detail. If we translate Elliott's words, is she hinting that Ontario voters believe that the Premier is not trustworthy and his "promises" are just falsehoods? Elliott told voters in October that the Conservative label worn by Ford and Scheer cannot be trusted nor believed. Hallway medicine at Brampton Civic Hospital and other Ontario hospitals doesn't appear to be going anywhere anytime soon. Brampton Civic is an absolute mess. The staff are trying their best, but the wait times are appalling. Peel Memorial Hospital, which was shut down in 2007, has been brought back only as an urgent care center that is open only from 8 in the morning  10 in the evening  Monday through Sunday. During the last six months, my brother was an out-patient in the emergency departments in Brampton hospitals, and few family members also had to go to different hospitals in Toronto and Mississauga. I have witnessed "hallway healthcare" on many occasions. It is evident to me, as someone without medical training, that the circumstances that resulted in patients sleeping and being treated in hallways, and other unusual locations, are numerous and complex. Ford was speaking in blatant ignorance when he boasted that he would end the problem within one year. Elliott, who does know the complexity of the issue, did a service to nobody when she attempted to backpedal his remarks. Last year’s bombshell internal memo obtained by Toronto media revealed that 4,352 patients were treated in the hospital's hallways. Between Apr. 2016 and Apr. 2017, the government announced 2,000 new hospital beds for the entire province, with just 37 of them going to BCH. During that same period, 4,352 people were treated int Brampton. Many patients have had to stay in the hallways from 40 - 70 hours. One woman, Jamie Lynn Ball, spent five days in a Brampton hospital hallway. There still isn’t much improvement in the situation, especially when compared to other cities, as hospital accommodation in Brampton has only increased. Brampton Civic can treat approximately 90,000 patients a year. In contrast, in the year 2016-17, 388,000 patients were coming for treatment. Brampton's population is rising 16-20 per cent annually, so it can be estimated that the situation will be worse. Both the minister and the Premier should refrain from making factual statements by two things. The first and most important thing is that serious efforts need to be made to improve the services in Ontario. This requires lesser 'income' and more funds. Secondly, in view of the federal elections being held in October, they are not getting anything more than blowing up federal Conservative Party leader Andrew Scheer, playing the game of 'Combined,' and it will backfire both federally and provincially. BIOGRAPHY Surjit Flora is a veteran journalist and freelance writer who has previously contributed to the Huffington Post, Toronto Sun, Brampton Guardian and other publications. He has lived in Brampton, Ontario for the last 30 years. He is a news reporter and photographer who has been published all over the world in more than 100 newspapers, magazines and online. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

7 - You need to accept the importance of good leadership and its impact on business success
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/you-need-to-accept-the-importance-of-good-leadership-and-its-impact-on-business-success-1052019779/
You need to accept the importance of good leadership and its impact on business success Jas Darar ▼ | May 10, 2019   Leadership involves a dynamic mix of behaviors, mindset, and skills, which are used to motivate people where a leader wants them to be for the furtherance of an organisation. It’s what he does, not his title, that makes someone a leader.  And these ‘actions’ must be consistent with the leader’s and the company’s whys — the ultimate objectives. So what kind of actions make a leader effective? It’s your responsibility to establish the company’s vision and performance expectations Leaders are known to be brilliant communicators. Being one is a necessity. How else would you expect to get your team member on-board with your vision and enlighten them with the steps needed to achieve this vision? This starts with a leader having to be genuine meaning, he has to know who he is and what his values are, as well as what his plans for the future are. Transmitting your enthusiasm for the future is a surefire way to get your team to buy into your vision. But, you also need to be able to explicitly explain the performance expectations to your team so that they can see the bigger picture. You have to make lightning fast decisions with a good level of effectiveness Leaders are known for being expert decision makers. They’re also known for making these decisions exceptionally fast. Why fast? Because during crunch time is when great leaders present themselves. You must know which decisions will have the biggest impact. You must be able to think rationally about how your options align with the ultimate objectives — your company’s whys. You have to be okay with putting the spotlight on others Truly great leaders rarely make themselves the center of attention. They recognise and showcase their gratitude, of the hard work, dedication, success, and even other leadership efforts from team members. They also inspire others to share their ideas and to speak-up so that they can voice their perspectives or point-of-view. Working hard as a leader should not be fueled by attaining a certain degree of personal triumph. It is only through sharing the spotlight with others that a leader truly achieve success. You need to accept full responsibility of actions, especially the bad ones Successful leaders don’t make excuses or throw their team under the bus when something didn’t go as planned. They don’t humiliate employees in front of everyone. They take full responsibility and blame. And, if they feel a team member made a mistake, they give this feedback to them in private. There is nothing worse than a leader that likes to point fingers when things go south. You need to learn to take risks without being reckless Everything that is worth doing involves risk. But there’s a difference between taking risks and taking calculated risks. To become an outstanding leader, you must understand the importance of taking risks, and you must be willing to try something new. Use your existing knowledge and expertise, resources, and intuition to judge whether or not the risk is worth it. Make sure the risks you’re taking would not jeopardise the team, and again, be accountable in the event that the risk does not pay off. You have to lead by example While this is a rather cliché statement, it doesn't make it any less true. The best of leaders are the ones who “walk the walk.” If you want your team members to act and behave in a certain way, then be the first one to observe that behavior. And don’t do it just to be an example; do it because you genuinely believe in those principles. Once your team members view you as hard working, trustworthy, transparent, ethical, and someone who treats everyone with respect, it will be extremely easier to motivate them to work towards your personal and business goals. BIOGRAPHY Leaving behind a lucrative career in Sales and Customer Services in a variety of industries, Jas Darar joined ActionCOACH East Midlands as a Business Coach in 2007. After 7 successful years he then went on to set up REACH Business Coaching. Mr. Darar is an experienced campaigner and has an extremely successful track record in sales, marketing, customer services, retention and team building. In one business, he grew revenues by 830% in one year. Working in various industries has given Mr. Darar an understanding of the challenges and opportunities that exist for businesses in the East Midlands, whether they be small or large organisations. Mr. Darar’s experience is diverse with his career taking him through many industries, including wholesale, retail, the service industry, recruitment, banking, and telecommunications. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

8 - Despite heated debate, ban on cellphones in Canada is good step
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/despite-heathed-debate-ban-on-cellphones-in-canada-is-good-step-242019459/
Despite heated debate, ban on cellphones in Canada is good step Surjit Singh Flora ▼ | March 26, 2019   Access to mobile technology can be both a blessing and a curse. Smartphones are used to make calls to loved ones, make business communications and organize our social lives. But they also raise concerns due to their impact on our health, society and the way we learn. In Ontario, parents, students and educators are involved in a heated debate as to whether or not children should be allowed to take cellphones to school. For parents who are concerned about their child’s academic performance the answer is probably “no.” They fear the phones will be used more for socializing than for studying. And how can teachers be sure that students are using their phones as learning tools? It’s not unfair to say that students having cellphones in class adds another potential distraction to the learning environment. However, those same phones are also a valuable resource for innovative teachers. Cellphones provide an opportunity to develop innovative learning strategies, including use of the internet which gives students access to a knowledge base far beyond the constraints of the classroom. Whether we embrace it or not, mobile technology is a fundamental part of the modern world and will play an even bigger role in the future. Today’s students will enter a job market where many careers will rely on technology. They’ll need to be able to understand it and mature enough to use it appropriately. After all of the discussion among Ontarians, Doug Ford and the provincial government decided to place a ban on cellphones in classrooms, coming into effect this coming September. There are a number of schools across the country where these restrictions have already been implemented. While I believe that young children don’t need to access social media, I also believe it should be up to individual schools to decide their cellphone policy rather than the government. Disagreeing with every decision the Ford government makes has become a reoccurring trend among some people, especially the Leader of the Official Opposition in Ontario and the leader of the Ontario New Democratic party, Andrea Horwath. People also raised dissenting voices at Ford’s handling of the sex-ed curriculum and for the almost-appointment of personal friend Ron Tanveer as the OPP commissioner. Although some of Doug Ford’s opinions may be unpopular, there are some things worth mentioning in regard to the cellphone ban. Firstly, this isn’t a new announcement; the cellphone ban was originally proposed as part of the PC Party’s election platform. Secondly, the purpose of the ban isn’t to keep students from their phones but to reduce the amount of misuse of cellphones in class. For example, if a student believed their work could better be explained or completed by using their phone that could be allowed. Teachers and school boards may also grant a student access to their phone if they have an accessibility issue. Lastly, after the election last summer the Ford administration and Education Minister Lisa Thompson embarked on a process to collect opinions from the public on matters like the sex-ed curriculum and cellphones through digital surveys and telephone town halls. The information and opinions surrounding the sex-ed curriculum dominated the narrative in the media though both issues are a headache for parents and teachers alike. According to Thompson around 97 percent of respondents agreed with some sort of ban on cellphones. Although the provincial government creates a lot of debate in the media due to their controversial decisions and opinions, a ban on cellphones is a good step. From my point of view, this step by the provincial government should be welcomed without pushback from people like NDP Leader Andrea Horwath. BIOGRAPHY Surjit Flora is a veteran journalist and freelance writer who has previously contributed to the Huffington Post, Toronto Sun, Brampton Guardian and other publications. He has lived in Brampton, Ontario for the last 30 years. He is a news reporter and photographer who has been published all over the world in more than 100 newspapers, magazines and online. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com  ■

9 - When a lot of business decision-making takes a toll on your mental willpower
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/when-a-lot-of-business-decisionmaking-takes-a-toll-on-your-mental-willpower-1412019140/
When a lot of business decision-making takes a toll on your mental willpower Jas Darar ▼ | January 14, 2019   Did you know that the average person makes about 35,000 decisions in a day? Sure, most of these decision are small ones — what to eat, where to go, what to wear — but every decision requires energy, and especially when combined with a lot of physical activity, it will eventually drain our mind. It’s what experts call decision fatigue. The higher the number of choices you make throughout the day, the more exhausting each one becomes for your brain. Now when you’re the head of company, those decisions become not only important but could also be detrimental to the fate of the business. Business leaders have a lot of decision-making responsibilities on their plate and sometimes it becomes too much for their mind. When this happens, the brain begins to look for shortcuts in processing certain situations, and that recklessness is not very good when you’ve got an entire company depending on you to make the right calls. Below are several ways to fight decisions fatigue. Make fewer decisions, delegate the rest Just like with any other life problem that results from being excessive, the best way to reduce decision fatigue is to reduce the number of decisions you have to make in a day. And the way to do that is to plan everything that can be planned ahead of time. Decide your meals the night before, so you know what you’re having for breakfast. Pick out your clothes days in advance. Use daily planners and to-do lists. Leverage automation for things that are recurring. Then, you can delegate decisions the same way you delegate tasks. By giving responsibility for decision-making to other people, you reduce the number of decisions on your plate. Making a big decision? Do it in the morning Studies have found that people tend to vary their decision-making guidelines throughout the day. In the morning, they tend to be more careful and meticulous in their choices. But as decision fatigue sets in later in the afternoon and at night, they start making riskier decisions. So if you have a have a big decision that necessitates cautious consideration, schedule to make it in the morning. Make one decision at a time by setting deadlines Sometimes there are several things that require your decision throughout a long project or a certain timeframe, and when these things overlap each other, it could result to poor decision-making on your part. The trick is to space them out by setting mini-deadlines for each stage or process that needs decisions before you can proceed. When you’ve these decisions their respective time for you to focus on, you’re truly using your best judgment. Trust your decisions when you’ve already made them Business owners often have the attitude that everything they do needs to be perfect, and this puts a lot of pressure on them to make the “right” choice, because the “wrong” one could ruin everything. This causes them to second-guess the choices they have made and keeps them from moving along to the next parts of the process. It’s true — every decision is important. But if you become obsessed with every move you make and can barely function anymore because of anxiety, that’s not right anymore. Have faith in the choices you made and instead of worrying whether or not you screwed it up, focus on why your decision was a great one and work on making it work. BIOGRAPHY Leaving behind a lucrative career in Sales and Customer Services in a variety of industries, Jas Darar joined ActionCOACH East Midlands as a Business Coach in 2007. After 7 successful years he then went on to set up REACH Business Coaching. Mr. Darar is an experienced campaigner and has an extremely successful track record in sales, marketing, customer services, retention and team building. In one business, he grew revenues by 830% in one year. Working in various industries has given Mr. Darar an understanding of the challenges and opportunities that exist for businesses in the East Midlands, whether they be small or large organisations. Mr. Darar’s experience is diverse with his career taking him through many industries, including wholesale, retail, the service industry, recruitment, banking, and telecommunications. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

10 - Is social media marketing worth what it’s costing you?
https://lite.poandpo.com/oped/is-social-media-marketing-worth-what-its-costing-you-31122018273/
Is social media marketing worth what it’s costing you? Sue Painter ▼ | December 31, 2018   In the past week or so I’ve had about a dozen people in the online world want to talk about the increasing amounts of time they’re putting into social media marketing. I feel it myself – managing my social marketing has come to take a larger portion of my business’s budget along with more of my time and team members’ time. I’m not so sure it’s worth it. It’s very easy to discount your time and the money you spend for social media graphics and posting tools. But it’s important to keep your eyes on these costs and have a sense of whether marketing on social is worth it for your business. So here’s how it’s gone for me – I used to use a few free or inexpensive tools to manage posting content on social media. And in terms of social platforms, I’ve used Facebook primarily. But I’ve cycled through Twitter, Pinterest, LinkedIn and more. I flirted with some of the trendy things back in time – Periscope (which everyone thought would be the hot new thing), and Blab (remember that one?) Then of course, there’s things like Snapchat (not for me), and Instagram, where I am putting a good deal of effort lately. Here’s what I’m seeing as major changes in social media marketing that affect your business and your bottom line. Social posting tools have come and gone, and many of them have seen their capabilities chopped in half by the social platforms. Generally, your social media accounts don’t like you using posting tools to plan and post ahead of time. They are vested in you being “real time” all the time. Just let me say, if you’ve got enough time to spend in real time, every day, on various social media channels, you don’t have a going business. Facebook has enabled scheduled posting for your page and your groups right on their own platform, so it’s dumb to use an outside tool and get less reach than you will get with using their own prescheduling features. You can’t pre-schedule a single thing on your own personal profile on FB anymore, even within Facebook itself. While some people really like that, others of us who would like to keep a presence on our personal profiles once a day or so while we are out of pocket find their new policy restrictive and annoying. New tools come and go, and they are getting pricier. What used to be free or maybe $10 a month now is about $30 a month. And many tools are more expensive than that. But while some of them have cool features, they all focus in a certain way. If you made of list of what you really need for support from these tools, you’d find yourself buying access to multiple tools – and some of them are upwards of $100 a month or more. For me, I can’t possibly product all the graphics that match my content by myself, I’m not a graphic designer and there’s not enough hours in the day. So this year I’ve added a part time graphics person who uses Canva to produce graphics to the content and quotes that I give her – so I’m still doing the content part, she’s just making it pretty. Still, that’s a part time team member and my own time in training her and creating keyword rich content, too. When I decided to really beef up Instagram this year, it was clear I had to have help. In order to gain followers who are truly interested in what you have to say, you have to constantly like their content and chat with them. To build on IG that often means 700 or 800 “likes” a day. So now I have a second new part time team member who helps me with getting that done – but only after I provide the hashtags and people to follow – so I’m still putting in a ton of time and making sure that things are in my voice. I’m creating all the content for Instagram, even though I have some help in scheduling posts and in creating graphics to my content. And, whenever I get a spare moment I of course am commenting and liking on ALL the social media platforms I use. If I’m honest with myself, I’m easily spending double the time I used to spend on social platforms. And there’s an opportunity cost to doing that, for sure! So this year the time and the money I’m throwing at social media marketing has gone from maybe $50 a month to over $300 a month, plus a huge investment of my time. Will it pay off? That’s an open question. Given that the “rules” on various social platforms change almost daily, what I think is a good strategy might not pan out at all. Sometimes, I really think I’m wasting time and money. So here’s what I recommend for you: - Keep track of what you are spending in time and money and team time (which is money). For everything you do, there’s an opportunity cost for what you are NOT doing. You can’t do it all, so it has to count. That means watching your operating costs and not letting the time suck and the money spent get out of hand. - Track where your customers (sales) come from. Track it like a hound dog. ALWAYS pay attention. If you are getting more referrals from word of mouth and from speaking than anything else, feel free to chop out some of your social marketing time and costs. But to make this decision, you need to know where your customers come from. Always, always pay attention to this. Keep a list! - Pick no more than 2 social platforms to work with and put blinders on the others for a while, until you see that these two are actually paying off. - Don’t spend time on social media chatting up the folks who do what you do – use it to find new centers of influence and collaborations for yourself that can be win-wins for you and the person you are reaching out to. In other words, be strategic. - Repurpose your content diligently. Because reach on social platforms is decreasing (unless you are Joanna Gaines) it’s really doubtful that people will see what you are posting and think, “Oh, she just posted that yesterday over on Facebook, and here I’m seeing it again on Instagram.” Like, who cares? If it’s good content, people will like seeing it, and epetition can help you with top of mind awareness.  Make sure that your content on social drives traffic to your website and at least now and then has a call to action. I am absolutely the queen of repurposing. I have trained my 2 team members who help me with this how to slice, dice, and bake solid content at least 8 different ways. If you want to know more about that, stay tuned, and give me a heads up – I’ll do some training on it for you. Bottom line – social media marketing is probably a much bigger expense to you than you realize. Make sure you aren’t glossing over what it’s costing you, and as best you can (it’s impossible to measure cleanly) see if you are getting a return on your investment. Keep your business hat on and don’t let what you are spending on social media marketing get out of hand. BIOGRAPHY Sue Painter is a consultant to small business owners throughout the U.S. and overseas. Known for her quick insight, strong skills as a marketing strategist, and wisdom, Ms. Painter most loves to work with small business owners who are looking for new strategies to increase their visibility and sales. Painter's books, articles, and blog posts have been published world-wide. Contact the Op-Ed editor Ted Blackwater at tedblackwater@poandpo.com ■

9 - https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish

1 - Potato fraud exposed in Bulgaria
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/potato-fraud-exposed-in-bulgaria/
Potato fraud exposed in Bulgaria Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Large food chains and vegetable markets in Bulgaria sell German and French potatoes as Bulgarian products, thus misleading their customers, the Bulgarian National Potato Growers Association alerted. They have submitted complaints to the National Revenue Agency, Consumer Protection Commission and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency with a request for inspection. For several months now there has been a trend on both large markets and in the big chains to offer German and French potatoes with the label “Origin: Bulgaria”, according to the statements of the President of the Association of Potato Growers Todor Djikov. “We are professionals – growing potatoes is what we do. The average consumer may not make difference between potatoes produced in Germany and in Bulgaria or know their variety,” say potato producers quoted by novinite.com. “Our warehouses are full. People hang on by fingernails. They don’t have money. At the same time, support to farmers in Western countries appears to be stronger. Dumping is cruel,” Todor Djikov commented on the “Before All” radio show. Currently, potato producers in Germany, France and Belgium receive a minimum of EUR 100-150 per acre in additional support. The prime cost for them is lower because foreign producers have long been organized in large cooperatives, have huge packaging centers, workshops and machines. German potatoes are offered at a price of 4-6 euro cents per kilo, while Bulgarian producers offer their production for about 11 euro cents, Todor Djikov said. ■

2 - Turkey wants Serbian raspberries, blueberries, strawberries
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/turkey-wants-serbian-raspberries-blueberries-strawberries/
Turkey wants Serbian raspberries, blueberries, strawberries Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Officials of the Serbian Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Turkish development agency TIKA on Monday discussed exports of Serbian raspberries, blueberries and strawberries to Turkey. Industrial strawberry production, a topic addressed by Serbian and Turkish Agriculture Ministers Branislav Nedimovic and Bakir Pakdemirli in Ankara at the end of December, was also discussed at the meeting, the Serbian Agriculture Ministry said on its website. The State Secretary at the ministry, Senad Mahmutovic, and Plant Protection Directorate head Nebojsa Milosavljevic spoke with Tika Serbia Director Cagla Gultekin Tosbat about plans for future cooperation, focusing on potential joint projects in animal husbandry and fruit farming. Mahmutovic said Serbian fruit exports were expected to see further growth and that the results in raspberry exports over the past three years had been good. “According to the latest figures, exports of Serbia’s strategic fruit exceeded 215 mln euros in 2019. Considering the good prices caused by high global demand, the 2020 result is expected to be even better,” he said. Serbia’s raspberry exports in 2019 totalled 2,530 t and were worth 7.2 mln euros. ■

3 - New York: $25 million to continue programs through Nourish NY initiative
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/new-york-25-million-to-continue-programs-through-nourish-ny-initiative/
New York: $25 million to continue programs through Nourish NY initiative Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced $25 million to continue programs through the Nourish NY initiative as part of the 2021 State of the State agenda. Governor Cuomo will continue supporting the Nourish NY Initiative to ensure that no New Yorker goes hungry, continues commitment to purchase goods from New York State farmers and producers, protect the stability of our agricultural economy and help ensure that New York residents continue to access local nutritious foods. As of December 1, 2020, Nourish NY has resulted in $26.4 million in purchases for 17 million pounds of food More than one million households have received New York State products through food distributions and more than 4,000 farms have benefitted from the initiative. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, farmers experienced a drastic supply chain shift, which resulted in the loss of markets and income and in the waste of fresh surplus foods, particularly fluid milk. Simultaneously, the demand for food through emergency food providers escalated across the state. Seeing the opportunity to feed residents and aid farmers, the Governor launched the Nourish NY Initiative. This initiative provided $35 million in funds for the purchase of foods grown, raised, or processed in New York State and has served as an important alternative revenue stream for farmers and dairy processors during the pandemic. ■

4 - At least 500 pigs killed by African swine fever in Tanzania
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/at-least-500-pigs-killed-by-african-swine-fever-in-tanzania/
At least 500 pigs killed by African swine fever in Tanzania Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   At least 500 pigs have been killed by the African swine fever in Tanzania's northern district of Kahama in Shinyanga region, an official said on Sunday. Anamringi Macha, the Kahama district commissioner, said the pigs had been killed since the African swine fever, a highly contagious haemorrhagic viral disease of domestic and wild pigs, broke out in late December 2020. "Following the outbreak of the disease, district authorities have banned the sale of pork to protect consumers," Macha told a news conference. He said the district authorities banned sales of pork after a survey showed that the disease was spreading like wildfire. "The district authorities in collaboration with the central government are working hard to ensure that the disease is controlled before it spreads to neighboring districts and regions," said Macha. In March 2018, more than 900 pigs were killed by the African swine fever in southern Tanzania's region of Ruvuma.  ■

5 - USDA will provide more aid to American farmers
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/usda-will-provide-more-aid-to-american-farmers/
USDA will provide more aid to American farmers Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The USDA will provide more aid through the Coronavirus Food Assistance program, Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced. Farmers who are now eligible and need to apply or modify their application should work with their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) office between January 19 and February 26, 2021. A number of changes to CFAP are being made to align with the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 enacted on December 27, 2020. Other discretionary changes are being made “in response to ongoing evaluation of CFAP,” the statement said. “The COVID-19 pandemic has left a deep impact on the farm economy, and we are utilizing the tools and monies available to ease some of the financial burdens on American producers to ensure our agricultural economy remains strong, independent, and a global leader in production,” said Secretary Perdue. “As part of implementing CFAP 1 and CFAP 2, we identified new areas of support, and Congress recently directed us to provide additional relief. This additional assistance builds on to the $23.6 billion in assistance already provided to our farmers and ranchers impacted by the pandemic, and we will continue to implement other provisions enacted by Congress.” Contract farmers of swine, broilers, laying hens, chicken eggs, and turkeys who suffered a drop in revenue in 2020 as compared with their 2019 revenue because of the pandemic now are eligible for direct payment aid. Producers could receive up to 80% of their revenue loss, subject to the availability of funds. Producers of pullets and turfgrass sod also now are eligible for CFAP funds. The commodities were not explicitly included in the initial CFAP 2 rule. Payments are based on eligible sales, and the payment calculation in the updated rule includes crop insurance indemnities, Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP), and Wildfire and Hurricane Indemnity Program – Plus (WHIP+) payments. Similarly, FSA adjusted the payment calculation to use the producer’s eligible 2019 calendar year sales, and 2019 crop insurance indemnities, NAP, and WHIP+ payments, multiplied by the applicable payment rate for all sales commodities, which include specialty crops, aquaculture, tobacco, specialty livestock, nursery crops, and floriculture, for CFAP 2. Producers who applied during the sign-up period that closed Dec. 11, 2020, can modify an existing CFAP 2 application between Jan. 19 and Feb. 26, 2021. Additionally, FSA adjusted the payment calculation for certain row crops for CFAP 2, specifically those for which a producer had crop insurance coverage but not an available 2020 Actual Production History (APH) approved yield. FSA is now using 100% of the 2019 Agriculture Risk Coverage-County Option (ARC-CO) benchmark yield to calculate payments when an APH is not available rather than 85%, which was in the original CFAP 2 calculations. This calculation change is only for producers with crop insurance coverage who grow barley, corn, sorghum, soybeans, sunflowers, upland cotton, and wheat. Producers who applied during the sign-up period that closed Dec. 11, 2020, can modify an existing CFAP 2 application between Jan. 19 and Feb. 26, 2021. FSA is providing an additional CFAP 1 inventory payment for swine to help producers who face continuing market disruptions from changes in U.S. meat consumption due to the pandemic. Swine producers with approved CFAP 1 applications will soon automatically receive a “top-up” payment of $17 per head increasing the total CFAP1 inventory payment to $34 per head. In addition to the changes being made to CFAP, per language in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, FSA will extend 2020 Marketing Assistance Loans to provide additional flexibilities for farmers. FSA is also preparing to move forward on implementation of the remaining provisions of the recently passed Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021. ■

6 - Bulgaria: Broadband internet access to be provided in rural areas with RDP funds
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/bulgaria-broadband-internet-access-to-be-provided-in-rural-areas-with-rdp-funds/
Bulgaria: Broadband internet access to be provided in rural areas with RDP funds Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Broadband internet in its maximum coverage is to be constructed in rural areas, after EUR 42 million have been allocated. The amount provided is a part of a total of EUR 70 million, transferred between various measures under the Rural Development Program (2014-2020). The Council of Ministers approved the tenth amendment to the Program, which ensures balanced and effective allocation of financial resources, in accordance with the strategic goals and priorities set at national and European level. The amendment of the Program extends the scope of support under Measure 12 "Payments under Natura 2000" and the Water Framework Directive in connection with the inclusion of new protected areas under the Wild Birds Directive and the Directive on the Conservation of Natural Habitats and the wild flora and fauna. "The amendment is important because from March 1 we will be able to provide compensatory payments under Measure 12 to farmers who fall within the scope of the newly issued orders," said Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva. Minister Taneva also pointed out that additional funding will be provided for all candidates who applied for during the last application cycle under Measure 7.6 for local religious units, including churches and monasteries ■

7 - Pakistan's agriculture sector governments top priority, says Imran Khan
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/pakistans-agriculture-sector-governments-top-priority-says-imran-khan/
Pakistan's agriculture sector governments top priority, says Imran Khan Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Prime Minister Imran Khan says development of agriculture sector and modernizing it is government's top priority as sixty percent of population is linked with this sector. Chairing a meeting in Lahore, the Prime Minister directed the Punjab government to formulate a separate and comprehensive action plan for the value chain of each agricultural product to improve quality of the produce. He directed to fully focus on the value addition of agricultural production in addition to solving the basic problems of food security. Imran Khan also directed to make a comprehensive strategy to increase existing capability of the agricultural produce to three times. He also instructed to run the agriculture related sectors including livestock, agricultural production and fisheries in a modern and corporate way to ensure complete reforms in this field. ■

8 - South Korea: Suspected case of highly pathogenic bird flu
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/south-korea-suspected-case-of-highly-pathogenic-bird-flu/
South Korea: Suspected case of highly pathogenic bird flu Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 17, 2021   South Korea's agricultural ministry said Sunday it is investigating a suspected case of highly pathogenic bird flu from a poultry farm, Yonhap reported. The latest suspected case of the malign H5 strain of avian influenza was reported at a duck farm in Gimje, about 260 kilometers southwest of Seoul, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs. The ministry issued a standstill order for nearby farms within 10 kilometers, as bird flu is contagious and can cause severe illness and even death in poultry. It will take up to three days to determine whether the suspected case is also highly pathogenic, authorities said. The disease has been spreading quickly among poultry farms across the country since its first such case in nearly three years in November. As of Saturday, the country reported three new cases of highly pathogenic bird flu from local poultry farms, raising the total caseload to 65, the agriculture ministry said. ■

9 - Hong Kong suspends import of poultry meat and products from areas in Japan and France
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/hong-kong-suspends-import-of-poultry-meat-and-products-from-areas-in-japan-and-france/
Hong Kong suspends import of poultry meat and products from areas in Japan and France Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   The Centre for Food Safety (CFS) of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department announced that it has suspended import of poultry meat and products from areas in Japan and France.  The Centre for Food Safety (CFS) of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department announced two days ago that in view of a notification from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan about an outbreak of highly pathogenic H5 avian influenza in Kagoshima Prefecture in Japan, and a notification from the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) about an outbreak of low pathogenic H5N3 avian influenza in Canton of Armagnac-Ténarèze, France, the CFS has instructed the trade to suspend the import of poultry meat and products (including poultry eggs) from the above-mentioned areas with immediate effect to protect public health in Hong Kong. A CFS spokesman said that according to the Census and Statistics Department, in the first nine months of last year, Hong Kong imported about 50 tonnes of chilled poultry meat, about 4 300 tonnes of frozen poultry meat and about 200 million poultry eggs from Japan, and about 8 740 tonnes of chilled and frozen poultry meat and about 1.1 million poultry eggs from France. "The CFS has contacted the Japanese and French authorities over the issues and will closely monitor information issued by the OIE and the relevant authorities on the avian influenza outbreaks. Appropriate action will be taken in response to the development of the situation," the spokesman said. ■

10 - Bird flu: Namibia suspends import, transit movement of live poultry from Europe
https://lite.poandpo.com/agrifish/bird-flu-namibia-suspends-import-transit-movement-of-live-poultry-from-europe/
Bird flu: Namibia suspends import, transit movement of live poultry from Europe Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   Namibia on Friday suspended the import and in-transit movement of live poultry and poultry products from the Netherlands, Germany, Britain, Belgium, Poland, Denmark, Sweden and France following the outbreak of bird flu. "The Directorate of Veterinary Services would like to inform the importers about the immediate suspension of import and in-transit movement of live poultry, birds, raw/uncooked poultry products, live ostriches, and raw ostrich products from the above-mentioned counties due to the outbreak of HPAI (highly pathogenic avian influenza) in poultry in those countries," Chief Veterinary Officer Albertina Shilongo said. Shilongo said the policy replaces the veterinary notification to importers that was issued on Dec. 29, 2020. The official said that since the incubation period of the disease is 21 days as determined by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), the suspension takes effect 21 days prior to the date of start of the event with the date varying between October and November 2020. "Thus, consignments containing poultry products packed in their final packaging on or after the date of start of suspension will be rejected and sent back to the country of origin or destroyed at the importer's cost," she added. Meanwhile, she said all previously issued import and in-transit permits are hereby canceled and recalled with immediate effect. ■

10 - https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership

1 - Give employees leadership responsibilities and you'll get more efficient workers
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/give-employees-leadership-responsibilities-and-youll-get-more-efficient-workers/
Give employees leadership responsibilities and you'll get more efficient workers Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Giving employees added responsibilities at work can significantly help their development and even change their personality traits, found a study by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Business School. Prof Li carried out the research alongside other seven other academics from Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Rutgers University, University of Florida, the Asia School of Business and Leuphana University of Lueneburg, University of Leeds, as well as a CUHK Business School PhD candidate. They tested their ideas in two studies using publicly available US and Australian databases, which compared the personality development of individuals at different stages over lengthy periods. People were split into a ‘becoming leaders’ group, for employees who were promoted into leadership roles, and a ‘non-leaders’ group” for those staff who remained as employee across time. The research found that moving into leadership roles led to an increase in a person’s “conscientiousness” and found no significant changes in people’s emotional stability. Prof Li said the results of the two studies supported their hypotheses about the relationship between becoming a leader and subsequent impact of performance. “We suggest organisations consider assigning staff with informal leadership roles as a way to encourage them to develop management capabilities,” he said. “This may help them to develop the types of behaviour and traits associated with conscientiousness and prepare them for their future tasks. “We also encourage organisations to broaden the scope and content of training to include personality development and also focus on more holistic forms of leadership development.” “One of the crucial factors in driving adult personality development is taking on new roles at work,” said researcher Wendong Li, Associate Professor at the Department of Management at CUHK. “As they take on wider responsibilities and play more important roles in organisations, novice leaders are expected to be more conscientious than when they were employees – more efficient, organised, vigilant, achievement-oriented, and dependable to subordinates. “Fulfilling the expectations and responsibilities required by leadership roles also means leaders must deal effectively with uncertainties and changes. Therefore, leaders need to be able to remain calm, and handle negative emotions in response to stress.” ■

2 - Surprise: Negative reviews boost sales
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/surprise-negative-reviews-boost-sales/
Surprise: Negative reviews boost sales Christian Fernsby ▼ | December 14, 2020   Aleksei Smirnov, Assistant Professor, HSE University Faculty of Economic Sciences, and Egor Starkov, Assistant Professor, University of Copenhagen, have constructed a mathematical model that explains why it is advantageous for sellers not to delete negative reviews of their products. A study detailing this conclusion has been accepted for publication in The American Economic Journal: Microeconomics. Empirical studies have indicated that consumers are more likely to buy a product with a rating slightly below a perfect one rather than a perfect one. Using game theory, the researchers analyzed how negative reviews affect sales. The researchers' model, which they presented in their paper "Bad News Turned Good: Reversal under Censorship," involves two sets of participants: sellers, who know the true quality of the products they are selling and can selectively publish reviews about it, and buyers, who do not know a product's quality and can be categorized as either 'naïve' or 'rational." Rational buyers use all available information to determine the quality of a product, while naïve buyers tend to take product reviews at face value and do not make any further inference. "If there were only naïve consumers in the market, sellers would leave only perfect reviews, because the naïve consumers believe what they read and there is no reason to disenchant them with negative reviews," Aleksei Smirnov explains. However, in reality there are both naïve and rational consumers in the market, and the situation is as follows. Good reviews are perceived positively by everyone. Bad reviews are bad for the naïve consumers, but for the rational consumers these reviews actually increase their confidence in the quality of a product. Why? Because, the authors say, every bad review weakens sales among naïve consumers. Therefore, only a seller of a high quality product will be confident enough to publish it—they can be certain that in the future their product will garner positive feedback, and sales among rational consumers will compensate for any losses among naïve consumers. Thus, bad reviews become a positive signal to rational consumers, and, by attracting more rational consumers, sellers boost sales. Examples where a seller is not only not shy about negative feedback but, on the contrary, flaunts it, can be found literally on the street. For example, roadside advertising billboards for digitec, the largest electronics retailer in Switzerland, feature poor customer reviews of their products. The authors of the study do not have data on how this advertising campaign has affected digitec's profits, but given that the billboards have been around for years, it can be assumed that this marketing move has been quite successful. ■

3 - An important advice for all leaders out there: Your people don't want just their paycheck
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/an-important-advice-for-all-leaders-out-there-your-people-dont-want-just-their-paycheck/
An important advice for all leaders out there: Your people don't want just their paycheck Christian Fernsby ▼ | December 7, 2020   If you work in a good advertising agency, you are trained to ask a very important question: “Why should anybody care?” Seriously. Why should anyone care about your beer? Great taste? Less filling? Who knows? Or your car? Is it sexy? Is it priced well? Does it get good gas mileage? Does any of it matter? And so you drill down. You do your homework. You start asking questions. Eventually, if you’re lucky, you’ll get some answers. And then, if you’re lucky, you’ll execute against those answers and watch your ad move the product off the shelf like nobody’s business, Gapingvoid writes. Or not. It’s never certain. It’s never guaranteed. It’s a messy business because life is messy. That being said, if you can figure out the reason the REAL reason why people should give a damn about your widget, you’ve got a shot. You’ve got something to build on. And so it is with leadership. To lead people, you need to know, intellectually and emotionally, why people should follow you. Why they should care. Why it matters. Sure, they want a paycheck. Sure, they want a job. But they want more than that. Granted, they may never be CEO, they may never be millionaire rockstars, but they still want their shot. Their shot at what? Their shot at doing something that matters. Their shot at doing something worth talking about. Their shot at prying their life out of the jaws of mediocrity. And if they don’t get their shot, they’ll go elsewhere to find it. Or if they stick around, well, you wouldn’t want them on your team anyway. The scary thing is, of course, is that when you question why anybody should give a hoot, the answer is “I have no idea”, or “Who the hell knows” or “There’s no reason for them to do so”. And that leaves you up the creek, sans paddle. But that is what real leadership is. Often, the reason to care isn’t obvious. It’s your job to make it so. What is the lesson here? Yes, culture is all about purpose, motivation, and mattering; the way you lead your people is very much about understanding where they are, what they need. Create the throughline on these emotions and you can build a beautiful thing- a place that all of your employees, customers, shareholders, and the media love. ■

4 - Simple signs to spot toxic work environment
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/simple-signs-to-spot-toxic-work-environment/
Simple signs to spot toxic work environment Christian Fernsby ▼ | November 30, 2020   It’s not always easy to spot a toxic work environment but you can spot one if you pay attention to some details. Before the interview pay attention to the job description. If it's vague or too long, you might as well skip to another job ad. You know those ads with an arm long job description will everything that fits on paper, and you should ideally be 25 years old with experience that lasts 25 years? Yes, skip that. If the interview has common questions we all know like what's your best side, what are your weaknesses, why do you want to work there blah blah you might go because this shows that those people are unable to make real questions so it's very questionable will they be able to define the job properly. If you reach the interview stage where you can ask questions and you get a vague answer to "What are the company's core values?" question, that is a reason for alarm. If they don't know they won't be able to clearly tell you what's expected from you. Then, observe the other side of the table. Are those people colleagues or there is a silence while the boss speaks? If they nod to everything the boss says the chance is you will have to. Are they interested in you or they just conduct an interview because they have to? If they are not interested, it's better to find a place where your prospective employer will treat you better. If the interview is very short and everything is done in minutes, that's not a good sign. When someone want to good employee some time must be spent. So, just "hello" and a few simple questions show that is neither a serious job interview nor a serious company. Take a look around and pay attention is the place quiet. If it is then you don't have to come back. That most probably means that there is no collaboration or people are too scared to talk because the boss will yell. This is not a company you want to work for. ■

5 - A primary task of leadership is to direct attention
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/a-primary-task-of-leadership-is-to-direct-attention/
A primary task of leadership is to direct attention Christian Fernsby ▼ | November 23, 2020   To do so, leaders must learn to focus their own attention, Daniel Goleman writes. Focusing on yourself, focusing on others, and focusing on the wider picture sheds new light on the practice of many essential leadership skills. Leaders who heed their inner voices can draw on more resources to make better decisions and connect with their authentic selves. Hearing your inner voice is a matter of paying careful attention to internal physiological signals. These subtle cues are monitored by the insula, which is tucked behind the frontal lobes of the brain. Attention given to any part of the body amps up the insula’s sensitivity to that part. Tune in to your heartbeat, and the insula activates more neurons in that circuitry. How well people can sense their heartbeats has, in fact, become a standard way to measure their self awareness. Gut feelings are messages from the insula and the amygdala, which the neuroscientist Antonio Damasio, of the University of Southern California, calls somatic markers. Those messages are sensations that something “feels” right or wrong. Somatic markers simplify decision making by guiding our attention toward better options. The most successful traders (whose annual income averaged £500,000) were neither the ones who relied entirely on analytics nor the ones who just went with their guts. They focused on a full range of emotions, which they used to judge the value of their intuition. When they suffered losses, they acknowledged their anxiety, became more cautious, and took fewer risks. The least successful traders (whose income averaged only £100,000) tended to ignore their anxiety and keep going with their guts. Because they failed to heed a wider array of internal signals, they were misled. The word “attention” comes from the Latin attendere, meaning “to reach toward.” This is a perfect definition of focus on others. Executives who can effectively focus on others are easy to recognize. They are the ones who find common ground, whose opinions carry the most weight, and with whom other people want to work. They emerge as natural leaders regardless of organizational or social rank. People who lack social sensitivity are easy to spot. Social sensitivity appears to be related to cognitive empathy. Cognitively empathic executives do better at overseas assignments, for instance, presumably because they quickly pick up implicit norms and learn the unique mental models of a new culture. Alarmingly, research suggests that as people rise through the ranks and gain power, their ability to perceive and maintain personal connections tends to suffer a sort of psychic attrition. In studying encounters between people of varying status, Dacher Keltner, a psychologist at Berkeley, has found that higher ranking individuals consistently focus their gaze less on lower ranking people and are more likely to interrupt or to monopolize the conversation. Leaders with a strong outward focus are not only good listeners but also good questioners. They are visionaries who can sense the far flung consequences of local decisions and imagine how the choices they make today will play out in the future. They are open to the surprising ways in which seemingly unrelated data can inform their central interests. In an era when almost everyone has access to the same information, new value arises from putting ideas together in novel ways and asking smart questions that open up untapped potential. If people are given a quick view of a photo of lots of dots and asked to guess how many there are, the strong systems thinkers in the group tend to make the best estimates. But in a small but significant number of people, a strong systems awareness is coupled with an empathy deficit a blind spot for what other people are thinking and feeling and for reading social situations. For that reason, although people with a superior systems understanding are organizational assets, they are not necessarily effective leaders. An executive at one bank explained that it has created a separate career ladder for systems analysts so that they can progress in status and salary on the basis of their systems smarts alone. That way, the bank can consult them as needed while recruiting leaders from a different pool one containing people with emotional intelligence. ■

6 - Short sellers use customer satisfaction survey data to bet on companies' stock
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/short-sellers-use-customer-satisfaction-survey-data-to-bet-on-companies-stock/
Short sellers use customer satisfaction survey data to bet on companies' stock Christian Fernsby ▼ | November 16, 2020   New research coauthored by a Rice University professor of marketing finds that businesses interested in improving their stock prices should focus on improving customer satisfaction. The study, published in the Journal of Marketing Research, analyzed quarterly data from 273 companies over a 10 year period and found that short interest, a measure of short seller activity, is an important indicator of customer satisfaction. "Our research finds that customers can move a company's stock price by expressing their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with a product or service, such as when they fill out a feedback survey," said Vikas Mittal, the J. Hugh Liedtke Professor of Marketing at Rice's Jones Graduate School of Business. "Professional investors or short sellers use customer satisfaction survey data to bet on companies' stock," he said. "When customers are dissatisfied with a company, short sellers bet against the company, which drives down a company's stock price. Short sellers avoid betting against a company with satisfied customers, and this increases the company's stock price," he said. Consumers give negative experiences more weight than positive experiences, wrote Mittal and co-authors Ashwin Malshe, an assistant professor of marketing at the University of Texas at San Antonio, and Anatoli Colicev, an assistant professor of marketing at Bocconi University in Milan. They also found that dissatisfaction is more than twice as a strong a driver of stock prices as satisfaction. "A one-unit increase in customer satisfaction is associated with a .56 percentage point increase in abnormal stock returns, while a one-unit increase in customer dissatisfaction is associated with a 1.34 percentage point decrease in abnormal stock returns," according to the study. The authors argue that short sellers therefore act as a conduit between customers and stock returns, as investors monitor short selling activity when making decisions. "The results are the first demonstration showing how customers affect board room decisions, and dissatisfied customers are a key source of stock price declines" Mittal said. "Many firms base executive compensation on improving customer satisfaction. Our results show that companies should also base executive compensation on reducing customer dissatisfaction, as we've learned reducing customer dissatisfaction is not the mirror opposite of increasing customer satisfaction." "Potentially, our results provide a very persuasive argument to board members of public companies aiming to maintain and increase investments in customer satisfaction," according to the paper. ■

7 - CEOs feel the need to take a political stand to contribute to society
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/ceos-feel-the-need-to-take-a-political-stand-to-contribute-to-society/
CEOs feel the need to take a political stand to contribute to society Christian Fernsby ▼ | November 9, 2020   Political and social engagement is a relevant topic for European business leaders. CEOs are increasingly making public statements on political issues in order to make a positive contribution to socially relevant topics. These are the findings of a recent study conducted by ESMT Master's in Management graduate Christoph Cewe in cooperation with United Europe e.V. The study surveyed leaders of large European companies. Of those surveyed, 77.5 per cent believe that managing directors should take a stand on political issues, and 62.5 per cent state that they are also (very) likely to express themselves in sociopolitical terms. The most frequently reported motives for taking a public stance are to contribute to society (78%) and to express corporate values (72%). The study entitled "The political CEO: Rationales behind CEO sociopolitical activism" explores the question of how and why CEOs and managing directors of European companies increasingly take a public stance on political and social issues that have no direct connection to their core business. Examples are climate change, immigration policy and the unconditional basic income. "The results of the study show that managing directors express themselves publicly, primarily on political issues, so that they can use their influence to make a positive contribution on socially relevant topics. Personal motives and potential advantages for shareholders do not play a greater role," says Christoph Cewe. European CEOs want to add value to the substantive discourse with their public statement, but do not want to take a party political stance. Thus, ecological, economic and social issues are identified as the most suitable topics for public comment. Less than one in ten of the CEOs surveyed stated that it is appropriate to take a party political stance in public. Leonhard Birnbaum, member of the board of management of E.ON SE, Günther H. Oettinger, former EU commissioner and president of United Europe e.V., and Jörg Rocholl, president of ESMT, engaged in an intensive exchange on the study "The Political CEO" . "We support business leaders who are committed to the European idea. "For many European CEOs, political commitment is a relevant topic, but CEOs do not bear political responsibility. "They must be able to maintain a balance between business competence, public credibility, and an understandable interest in social processes," says Günther H. Oettinger. ■

8 - Why do negotiations fail? Maybe you think about yourself too much
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/why-do-negotiations-fail-maybe-you-think-about-yourself-too-much/
Why do negotiations fail? Maybe you think about yourself too much Ted Blackwater ▼ | November 2, 2020   To be a good negotiator is not easy. You have to have a lot of experience and knowledge but maybe the most important advice would be to think about the other side more, and leave your ego behind if you want success. To negotiate something in your favor you have to use a range of tactics, depending on a situation and the goal you want to achieve. Be it a kid that doesn't want to eat her lunch or a huge business deal, it all comes down to one thing: you want something. So, in the first place, you are thinking about your own interest and then comes everything else. And that's normal, that is the very reason you are going into negotiations in the first place. But, surprisingly, that may lead to a fail. Let's see some common reasons why negotiations fail and what is behind it. It may come as a surprise but the first reason could be too much talk. You might think that you have to elaborate everything and more about your position to make the other side understand your reasons and agree to a deal. But if you talk too much you won't get what you want. Being lost in your own talk it's easy to forget the main objective goal of any negotiation: to make both parties satisfied. So, if you don't allow the other side to talk and bring forward their stand and reasons, you will achieve an unwanted goal: people will see you as an egocentric person who doesn't care about others. And they would be right. You won't give them a chance to bring their argument and you won't see why they came to a negotiating table and what they want. You will be seen as "only me person" and you will go home without a deal. The next mistake would be to hide your feelings altogether. You might think that you can negotiate avoiding emotive language because emotions will show what you really want. That has bad consequences and they are easy to see. If you do that you may lose clarity. Business is not just about numbers but also about people and workers and employees and profit and human relations. So, everything is important.  If you don't show any emotions the other side will think that you don't care about them too and that would be true. And it's not easy to negotiate with a robot so people will show you the door. Sharing your feelings is a powerful thing so don't think that hiding them will show your strength, it will show just one thing and that's that you are thinking about yourself and nothing else. Another mistake would be to offer a counter proposal on every offer the other side makes. There are a million things that make a successful business cooperation and if you make a counter offer on every one of them, the conclusion is so easy: you are thinking about yourself only. A successful negotiator makes half the counter offers than an unsuccessful one. That's a rule of thumb but it is a very important thing to remember. When negotiating, you must have a stand to protect your business but you must also allow the other side to get something good from your relationship. So, if you are making counter offers after every sentence you will be very annoying but what's even most important is that you will show that you don't list the other side. It is impossible that you have an objection on everything the other side proposes, that's simply impossible. All those examples and mistakes show one thing: although we should think about ourselves first, we must also think about the other side. The thing is, we are genetically wired to think about ourselves in every situation because our life depends on it: if our business fails we may be without work and that means without bread on the table. So, being egocentric to a degree is good but there is a catch. Humans are social beings and we learn through ages that we may achieve a lot more if we work together. If you lose on one side, you will see a gain on another. If you lose a few percentages here, you will get more products there. If you lower your prices, you may sell more products. You can always let something go to get something else. So, it is good to think about yourself but not only about yourself. That's true for life and that's true for business. Because there are other people out there who think about you too.  ■

9 - Redefine your culture for virtual workplace
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/redefine-your-culture-for-virtual-workplace/
Redefine your culture for virtual workplace Christian Fernsby ▼ | October 26, 2020   With more Americans working remotely than ever before, some organizations are scrambling to craft a 'virtual culture' in an effort to maintain performance in the 'new normal' and to prepare for the 'next normal. It's through the employee experience that organizations can sustain that culture, regardless of where an employee may work. And by focusing on creating the virtual and hybrid employee experience, organizations will empower and inspire all employees to do their best work. This new normal presents organizations with an opportunity to redefine the behaviors and rituals that codify the cultural values leadership wants to be reflected across the employee experience. Doing so is wise, given that the employee experience has a direct impact on customers' experiences and a company's recruitment and retention potential. Simply stated, if your culture functioned well in a traditional workplace, stay consistent. You need one culture, whether employees are remote or in-office, that supports what your organization values. Employees' partnerships, experiences with their managers, and roles need to feel the same, whether they're in or out of the office. Gallup studies indicate that organizations are most effective at creating a shared culture when they: Align the virtual, hybrid and in-person employee experience with workplace culture. Identify moments that matter in each mode of work. Create the change that's necessary for a shared culture. Align the experience with workplace culture Reflect on how you want your organization's distinctive purpose, brand and culture to be applied differently in the new environment. Redefine the behaviors and rituals that codify cultural values and make sure these are reflected across the employee experience. For example, a Gallup client that was accustomed to shuffling employees from city to city for in-person meetings was delighted to find that remote meetings gave them the human connection they were looking for and saved time while promoting wellbeing. At face value, limiting travel for employees might seem like a counterculture move, even during a pandemic. However, this client's core values guided them to adjust how they communicate. Identify moments that matter Different moments in the employee experience are more crucial than others, depending on dynamic factors including the employee value proposition, the individual role and the job market. Consider onboarding, for example: If new employees in a hot job market find that the tenor of the organization changes quickly after they're hired, companies may see spikes in early-employee turnover. Additionally, the organization scheduled daily social interactions with new colleagues and mentors for the new hires so they could develop key relationships a critical component of successful onboarding and doubled down on connecting new hires to the organization's purpose. Create the change Use your organizational identity (i.e., the culmination of your purpose, brand and culture) to affirm your expectations about how work gets done across the spectrum of work virtual to in-person. Think through the ways you provide stability and vision around culture. Identify and encourage manager actions that positively affect employees' experiences at work. For example, Gallup's research reveals that when managers give feedback a few times per week to remote workers, the engagement levels of those employees exceed both fully on-site and partially remote workers who receive the same frequency of feedback. An organization's core values and identity should guide decisions about the employee experience. ■

10 - Startups should think like camels
https://lite.poandpo.com/leadership/startups-should-think-like-camels/
Startups should think like camels Christian Fernsby ▼ | October 19, 2020   In Silicon Valley the predominant model is to raise unicorns, startups worth over a billion dollars. Traditionally, this is done through rapid growth, Alex Lazarow writes for Harvard Business Review. "The problem now, however, is that this growth-at-all-costs methodology, which the Valley’s top players are exceptionally good at, only works in the strongest bull markets, in the most optimal conditions. "But consider what I call the Frontier: those business ecosystems outside the Bay Area bubble, where startups have less access to capital or trained startup human capital, and where, especially in many emerging markets, they are more susceptible to severe and unpredictable macroeconomic shocks. "Instead of the unicorn, the camel is the more fitting mascot. "Camels are able to survive for long periods without sustenance, withstand the scorching desert heat, and adapt to extreme variations in climate. "They survive and thrive in some of Earth’s harshest regions. "These startup camels offer businesses in all industries and sectors valuable lessons on how to survive through crisis, and to sustain and grow in adverse conditions, even if the metaphor isn’t as flashy. "They do this with three strategies: they execute balanced growth, they take a long-term outlook, and they weave diversification into the business model. "Camels have no interest in “blitzscaling”, rapidly building-up the enterprise and prioritizing speed over efficiency in pursuit of massive scale. "They are as ambitious to grow as any Silicon Valley enterprise, yet they take a more balanced growth path. "This balanced approach has three key elements. "Camels understand that price shouldn’t be considered a barrier to growth. "Instead it is a feature of the product that reflects its market position and its quality. "Camels manage costs through the life cycle of their companies to align with a longer term growth curve. "Managing burn throughout the life cycle of a company prepares startups to weather tough conditions over a sustained period. "The typical Silicon Valley startup has a cash trajectory with a deep “valley of death” the graph line reflecting steep losses before profitability is achieved. "The line for Frontier startups looks different. "Of course camels don’t avoid growth or venture capital funding, but their scaling trajectory and associated burn rates will be less extreme. "In some cases, as with Grubhub, they’ll grow in controlled spurts, choosing only to put their foot on the gas and invest (often by raising venture capital) when required by the opportunity at hand. "Founders at the Frontier understand that building a company is not a short term endeavor." For many, breakthroughs don’t come immediately, but rather occur later in the company timeline. Survival is often the primary strategy. This allows time to build the business model, find a product that resonates with the market, and develop an operation that can scale. Competition will exist. But the race is about who will survive the longest, not about who goes to market first. ■

11 - https://lite.poandpo.com/crime

1 - Indonesian company PT Bukit Muria Jaya admits to deceiving U.S. banks to trade with North Korea
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/indonesian-company-pt-bukit-muria-jaya-admits-to-deceiving-us-banks-to-trade-with-north-korea/
Indonesian company PT Bukit Muria Jaya admits to deceiving U.S. banks to trade with North Korea Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   A global supplier of cigarette paper products, PT Bukit Muria Jaya (“BMJ”), has agreed to pay a fine of $1,561,570 and enter into a deferred prosecution agreement with the Justice Department for conspiring to commit bank fraud in connection with the shipment of products to North Korean customers. BMJ, which is incorporated in Indonesia, has also entered into a settlement agreement with the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). In entering the deferred prosecution agreement, BMJ admitted and accepted responsibility for its criminal conduct and agreed to pay a fine commensurate with the offense.  BMJ agreed to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect violations of U.S. sanctions laws and regulations and to regularly report to the Justice Department on the implementation of that program. BMJ also committed to report violations of relevant U.S. laws to the Justice Department and to cooperate in the investigation of such offenses. Pursuant to the agreed statement of facts adopted in the deferred prosecution agreement, BMJ admitted in part that it sold products to two North Korean companies as well as a Chinese trading company while knowing that those products were destined for North Korea.  At the time, U.S. sanctions on North Korea prevented, among other things, correspondent banks in the United States from processing wire transfers on behalf of customers located in North Korea.  After learning that one of its North Korean customers was having difficulty executing payments to BMJ, BMJ personnel agreed to accept payments from third parties that were otherwise unrelated to the transactions. Accepting these third-party payments evaded the sanctions monitoring and compliance systems of U.S. banks, inducing them into executing prohibited transactions. Assuming BMJ’s continued compliance with the deferred prosecution agreement, the government has agreed to defer prosecution for a period of 18 months, after which time, the government would seek to dismiss the charges. ■

2 - Samsung heir sentenced to 2.5 years in prison for corruption
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/samsung-heir-sentenced-to-25-years-in-prison-for-corruption/
Samsung heir sentenced to 2.5 years in prison for corruption Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Samsung Electronics Vice Chairman Lee Jae-yong was jailed Monday for corruption linked to his management succession. The Seoul High Court sentenced Lee, an heir apparent of South Korea's biggest family-run conglomerate Samsung Group, to two years and a half in prison for corruption charges including bribery. With a suspended prison sentence, he was released from jail in February 2018 after serving time for about one year, but the Supreme Court returned the case to the high court calling for a harsh punishment. ■

3 - Bundeskartellamt fines manufacturers of manhole covers and gully tops for price-fixing
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/bundeskartellamt-fines-manufacturers-of-manhole-covers-and-gully-tops-for-pricefixing/
Bundeskartellamt fines manufacturers of manhole covers and gully tops for price-fixing Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The Bundeskartellamt has imposed fines totalling around 6 million euros on two manufacturers of manhole covers and gully tops and their representatives for agreements on prices and rebates and an agreement to carve up two major contracts between themselves. The companies concerned are MeierGuss Sales & Logistics GmbH & Co. KG, based in Rahden, and Hydrotec Technologies AG in Wildeshausen. According to the Bundeskartellamt’s investigations, an agreement between the representatives of the two parties had existed at least from 16 May 2018 until the dawn raid that was conducted on 14 November 2018, under which the special rebate for specific standard products (referred to as “second rebate”) and the net prices for specific concrete/iron manhole covers applicable to major customers were to be agreed between the two companies. Based on this agreement the conditions were readjusted several times during the period mentioned above. Senior staff members of MeierGuss and Hydrotec also agreed in mid-August of 2018 to split order enquiries received from two large building material merchants between them. The enquiries concerned deliveries for September and October 2018. In setting the fine the Bundeskartellamt took into account that Hydrotec had cooperated extensively with the Bundeskartellamt in uncovering the agreements and that a settlement could be reached. In accordance with the authority’s leniency programme, no fine was imposed on the company with regard to the agreement to split the two orders. With the exception of the agreement to split the two orders, MeierGuss also acknowledged the facts as established by the Bundeskartellamt and agreed to a settlement. All the fines imposed are already final. ■

4 - Lithuania: Cartelist of radioactive scrap metal auction will have to pay imposed fine
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/lithuania-cartelist-of-radioactive-scrap-metal-auction-will-have-to-pay-imposed-fine/
Lithuania: Cartelist of radioactive scrap metal auction will have to pay imposed fine Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   The Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania rejected the appeal by the German company Sypra which participated in the radioactive scrap metal auction conducted by Ignalina nuclear power plant and concluded a cartel. The Court did not reduce the fine imposed on the company by the Lithuanian competition authority. The Court confirmed a lower court judgment adopted in October 2020, according to which the fine imposed on Sypra was set and imposed properly by Konkurencijos taryba, therefore, the company’s request to reduce the fine was rejected. Since the Court’s ruling is final and binding, the German company will have to pay EUR 27,100 to the Lithuanian budget. In 2018 both courts upheld the decision of Konkurencijos taryba which found that UAB Norvesta and the German company Sypra concluded a cartel agreement which resulted in sanctions. However, the Court sent the case back to Vilnius Regional Administrative Court to decide whether the size of the fine was set properly. Konkurencijos taryba found that both firms coordinated their actions by agreeing in advance that Sypra will submit a bid of more than EUR 1.5 million and Norvesta will not bid higher therefore allowing Sypra to win the auction. Besides, Sypra helped Norvesta to make an agreement with the company engaged in radioactive waste recycling, which was one of the necessary conditions of the participation in the auction. For the infringement of the Law on Competition the companies were fined EUR 27,500 and EUR 27,100 respectively. ■

5 - 28 states resolves data breach investigation of Sabre Hospitality Solutions
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/28-states-resolves-data-breach-investigation-of-sabre-hospitality-solutions/
28 states resolves data breach investigation of Sabre Hospitality Solutions Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   Attorney General Herbert H. Slatery III, along with the attorneys general of 27 states, has entered into a settlement with Sabre Corporation that resolves an investigation into the 2017 data breach of Sabre Hospitality Solutions’ hotel booking system. The breach exposed the data of approximately 1.3 million credit cards. The settlement requires a payment of $2.4 million, of which the State of Tennessee will receive $61,909.08 and injunctive relief. Sabre Hospitality Solutions, a business segment of Sabre, operates the SynXis Central Reservation system, which facilitates the booking of hotel reservations. SynXis connects business travel coordinators, travel agencies, and online travel booking companies to Sabre’s hotel customers. On June 6, 2017, Sabre informed its hotel customers of a data breach that occurred between August 2016 and March 2017, which the business had disclosed in a 10-Q SEC filing the month before. The hotels, which were responsible for informing their customers of the breach, did not issue some notifications until 2018. “When a data breach occurs, everyone down the line should be informed immediately,” said General Slatery. “This settlement seeks to protect both consumers and the customers who have provided sensitive information to a third-party vendor.” The settlement requires Sabre to include language in future contracts that specifies the roles and responsibilities of both parties in the event of a breach. It also requires Sabre to try to determine whether its customers have provided notice to consumers, and to provide the attorneys general a list of all the customers that it has notified. In addition, the settlement requires that Sabre implement and maintain a comprehensive information security program, implement a written incident response and data breach notification plan, implement specific security requirements, and undergo a third-party security assessment. Joining General Slatery are the attorneys general of Vermont, Arkansas, Connecticut, Illinois, Alaska, Arizona, Florida, Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington. ■

6 - Toyota Motor Company to pay $180 million for decade-long noncompliance with Clean Air Act reporting
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/toyota-motor-company-to-pay-180-million-for-decadelong-noncompliance-with-clean-air-act-reporting/
Toyota Motor Company to pay $180 million for decade-long noncompliance with Clean Air Act reporting Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   The United States has filed and simultaneously settled a civil lawsuit against Toyota Motor Corporation, Toyota Motor North America Inc., Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Inc., and Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America Inc. (Toyota) for systematic, longstanding violations of Clean Air Act emission-related defect reporting requirements, which require manufacturers to report potential defects and recalls affecting vehicle components designed to control emissions. Along with the civil complaint, the United States has filed a consent decree, agreed to by Toyota, that resolves the government’s complaint through Toyota’s payment of a $180 million civil penalty and the imposition of injunctive relief.  The $180 million penalty is the largest civil penalty for violation of EPA’s emission-reporting requirements. The injunctive provisions require Toyota to follow compliance and reporting practices designed to ensure timely investigation of emission-related defects and timely reporting to EPA, and include training, communication, and oversight requirements. “For a decade, Toyota systematically violated regulations that provide EPA with a critical compliance tool to ensure that vehicles on the road comply with federal emissions standards,” said Audrey Strauss, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. “Toyota shut its eyes to the noncompliance, failing to provide proper training, attention, and oversight to its Clean Air Act reporting obligations. Toyota’s actions undermined EPA’s self-disclosure system and likely led to delayed or avoided emission-related recalls, resulting in financial benefit to Toyota and excess emissions of air pollutants. Today, Toyota pays the price for its misconduct with a $180 million civil penalty and agreement to injunctive relief to ensure that its violations will not be repeated.” During the period of noncompliance, Toyota managers and staff in Japan knew that Toyota was no longer even attempting to determine whether it was aware of 25 instances of the same emission-related defect in a model year – the threshold requirement for filing an EDIR. Rather than follow this legally required standard, Toyota unilaterally decided to file EDIRs principally when Toyota was required to file distinct reports with California regulators under a less strict standard – a standard that EPA had rejected as too lenient when Toyota had previously proposed to rely on it for federal reporting. Toyota managers and staff in Japan repeatedly identified the discrepancy between Toyota’s procedures and the plain language of the federal requirements but failed to bring Toyota into compliance. As a result of its conduct, Toyota deprived EPA of timely information regarding emission-related defects and recalls and avoided the early focus on emission defects contemplated by the regulations. Toyota’s conduct likely resulted in delayed or avoided recalls, with Toyota obtaining a significant economic benefit, pushing costs onto consumers, and lengthening the time that unrepaired vehicles with emission-related defects remained on the road. Toyota admits, acknowledges, and accepts responsibility for what is included in the consent decree. Between approximately 2005 and late 2015, Toyota routinely filed emission defect reports to EPA materially late and, in many cases, failed to file such reports at all until a self-disclosure of non-compliance in late 2015. In March and May 2002, at EPA’s request, Toyota and EPA representatives met to discuss Toyota’s internal process for identifying whether 25 instances of a specific emission-related defect exist in vehicles or engines of the same model year, requiring an EDIR filing. At a first meeting in March 2002, Toyota described its EDIR process in which Toyota would investigate whether it had 25 defects only upon receiving 25 “product reports” from its dealers, but would supplement that review by filing an EDIR upon receiving warranty claims for an emission-related part in 4 percent of Toyota’s California fleet (a threshold requiring a separate filing to state authorities under California law). At the meeting, EPA rejected this EDIR process as not timely considering warranty claims, despite the incorporation of the 4 percent California trigger. At a May 2002 meeting with EPA, Toyota presented its revised process. Under that process, Toyota would commence an investigation to determine whether an EDIR filing was required when it had received warranty claims for an emission-related part for 1 percent of relevant vehicles nationwide; when it received 500 such warranty claims regardless of the percentage; or when it received 25 similar early warning reports. Toyota noted internally that EPA seemed pleased with this approach, which EPA had described as “more stringent than California.” In 2003, 2004, and 2005, as part of an annual review, Toyota submitted its May 2002 process in writing to EPA as an overview of its EDIR reporting program. Without notifying EPA, in approximately 2005, Toyota stopped following the May 2002 EDIR process. In approximately 2005, Toyota began filing EDIRs primarily when filing the California reports triggered by the 4 percent threshold. Toyota also filed EDIRs in a small number of instances when it was otherwise filing VERRs with EPA. From approximately 2005 to 2015, Toyota stopped making any independent determination of whether 25 defects existed requiring an EDIR filing. Multiple times during this period, Toyota staff charged with preparing EDIRs identified that the plain language of the EDIR regulations called for filing an EDIR upon the identification of 25 defects, but that Toyota was not doing so. These staff did not cause Toyota to change its practice. As a result of this conduct, Toyota filed at least 69 EDIRs materially late. Thirty-nine of these were filed materially late in the ordinary course of Toyota’s business. In late 2015, Toyota self-disclosed another 30 that had not been filed at all. Some EDIRs were ultimately filed as many as eight years after they were due. Beyond EDIRs, Toyota also failed during this period to file 20 VERRs required for emission-related recall campaigns that it conducted and failed to file more than two hundred Quarterly Reports related to such campaigns. Between 2005 and 2015, Toyota failed to provide its employees with adequate training, resources, or oversight to ensure that Toyota complied with its reporting obligations to EPA. As a result of Toyota’s conduct, EPA did not timely receive mandated information regarding emission-related defects and recalls. ■

7 - Deutsche Bank agrees to pay over $130 million to resolve Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, fraud case
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/deutsche-bank-agrees-to-pay-over-130-million-to-resolve-foreign-corrupt-practices-act-fraud-case/
Deutsche Bank agrees to pay over $130 million to resolve Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, fraud case Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 10, 2021   Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft (Deutsche Bank or the Company) has agreed to pay more than $130 million to resolve the government’s investigation into violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and a separate investigation into a commodities fraud scheme. The resolution includes criminal penalties of $85,186,206, criminal disgorgement of $681,480, victim compensation payments of $1,223,738, and $43,329,622 to be paid to the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission in a coordinated resolution. Deutsche Bank is a multi-national financial services company headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany. The charges arise out of a scheme to conceal corrupt payments and bribes made to third-party intermediaries by falsely recording them on Deutsche Bank’s books and records, as well as related internal accounting control violations, and a separate scheme to engage in fraudulent and manipulative commodities trading practices involving publicly-traded precious metals futures contracts.  Deutsche Bank entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (DPA) with the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section (MLARS) and with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. The criminal information was filed in the Eastern District of New York charging Deutsche Bank with one count of conspiracy to violate the books and records and internal accounting controls provisions of the FCPA and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud affecting a financial institution in relation to the commodities conduct. “Deutsche Bank engaged in a seven-year course of conduct, during which it failed to implement a system of internal accounting controls regarding the use of company funds and falsified its books and records to conceal corrupt and improper payments,” said Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Robert Zink of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division. “Separately, Deutsche Bank traders on three continents sought to manipulate our public financial markets through fraud for five years. This resolution exemplifies the department’s commitment to help ensure that publicly traded companies devise and implement appropriate and proper systems of internal accounting controls and maintain accurate and truthful corporate documentation. It also stands as an example of the department’s efforts to police the public U.S. markets so that all may continue to trust, and rely upon, the integrity of our public financial systems.” “Deutsche Bank engaged in a criminal scheme to conceal payments to so-called consultants worldwide who served as conduits for bribes to foreign officials and others so that they could unfairly obtain and retain lucrative business projects,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Seth D. DuCharme of the Eastern District of New York. “This office will continue to hold responsible financial institutions that operate in the United States and engage in practices to facilitate criminal activity in order to increase their bottom line.” “The U.S. Postal Inspection Service takes pride in investigating complex fraud and corruption cases that impact American investors,” said Inspector in Charge Delany De Léon-Colón of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service’s Criminal Investigations Group. “This type of deceptive activity can cause immeasurable economic losses to competitive markets around the world. The combined efforts of our partners at the FBI and Department of Justice helped to bring today’s significant action which illustrates our efforts to protect the United States and the international marketplace.” According to admissions and court documents, between 2009 and 2016, Deutsche Bank, acting through its employees and agents, including managing directors and high-level regional executives, knowingly and willfully conspired to maintain false books, records, and accounts to conceal, among other things, payments to a business development consultant (BDC) who was acting as a proxy for a foreign official and payments to a BDC that were actually bribes paid to a decisionmaker for a client in order to obtain lucrative business for the bank. In some instances, Deutsche Bank made payments to BDCs that were not supported by invoices or evidence of any services provided. In other cases, Deutsche Bank employees created or helped BDC’s create false justifications for payments.       In relation to a Saudi BDC, Deutsche Bank admitted that its employees conspired to contract with a company owned by the wife of a client decisionmaker to facilitate bribe payments of over $1 million to the decisionmaker. Deutsche Bank approved the BDC relationship despite Deutsche Bank employees knowing about the relationship between the Saudi BDC and the decisionmaker, and approved the corrupt payments despite Deutsche Bank employees openly discussing the need to pay the Saudi BDC in order to incentivize her husband to continue to do business with Deutsche Bank. In requesting approval of one payment, Deutsche Bank employees cautioned that the “client and [the Saudi BDC] are intimately linked and . . . any cessation of payment to the [the Saudi BDC] will certainly prompt a significant outflow of [business]” from the client. Deutsche Bank also contracted with an Abu Dhabi BDC to obtain a lucrative transaction, despite Deutsche Bank employees knowing that the Abu Dhabi BDC lacked qualifications as a BDC, other than his family relationship with the client decisionmaker, and that the Abu Dhabi BDC was in fact acting as proxy for the client decisionmaker. Deutsche Bank paid the Abu Dhabi BDC over $3 million without invoices. By agreeing to misrepresent the purpose of payments to BDCs and falsely characterizing payments to others as payments to BDCs, Deutsche Bank employees conspired to falsify Deutsche Bank’s books, records, and accounts, in violation of the FCPA. Additionally, Deutsche Bank employees knowingly and willfully conspired to fail to implement internal accounting controls in violation of the FCPA by, among other things, failing to conduct meaningful due diligence regarding BDCs, making payments to certain BDCs who were not under contract with Deutsche Bank at the time, and making payments to certain BDCs without invoices or adequate documentation of the services purportedly performed. Deutsche Bank will pay a total criminal penalty of $79,561,206 in relation to the FCPA scheme. In a related matter with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, Deutsche Bank will also pay $43,329,622 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest. According to admissions and court documents, between 2008 and 2013, Deutsche Bank precious metals traders engaged in a scheme to defraud other traders on the New York Mercantile Exchange Inc. and Commodity Exchange Inc., which are commodities exchanges operated by the CME Group Inc. On numerous occasions, traders on Deutsche Bank’s precious metals desk in New York, Singapore, and London placed orders to buy and sell precious metals futures contracts with the intent to cancel those orders before execution, including in an attempt to profit by deceiving other market participants through injecting false and misleading information concerning the existence of genuine supply and demand for precious metals futures contracts. On Sept. 25, 2020, a Chicago federal jury found two former Deutsche Bank precious metals traders, James Vorley, 42, of the United Kingdom, and Cedric Chanu, 40, of France and the United Arab Emirates, guilty of wire fraud affecting a financial institution for their respective roles in the commodities scheme. A third former Deutsche Bank trader, David Liew, 35, of Singapore, pleaded guilty on June 1, 2017, to conspiracy to commit wire fraud affecting a financial institution and spoofing. A fourth former Deutsche Bank trader, Edward Bases, 58, of New Canaan, Connecticut, was charged in a third superseding indictment on Nov. 12, 2020, and awaits trial on fraud and conspiracy charges. An indictment is merely an allegation and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. Deutsche Bank has agreed to pay a total criminal amount of $7,530,218 in relation to the commodities scheme. This amount includes criminal disgorgement of $681,480, victim compensation payments of $1,223,738, and a criminal penalty of $5,625,000, which will be fully credited against Deutsche Bank’s payment of a civil monetary penalty of $30 million to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission in January 2018 in connection with substantially the same commodities conduct. The department reached this resolution with Deutsche Bank based on a number of factors, including the Company’s failure to voluntarily disclose the conduct to the department and the nature and seriousness of the offense, which included corrupt payments, willful violations of the FCPA accounting provisions, and commodities trading violations in three countries. Deutsche Bank received full credit for its cooperation with the department’s investigations and for its significant remediation. Penalties associated with both the FCPA and wire fraud conspiracies reflect a discount of 25 percent off the middle of the otherwise-applicable U.S. Sentencing Guidelines fine range, to account for Deutsche Bank’s 2015 resolution in connection with its manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate.   The FCPA investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, and is being prosecuted by the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Money Laundering and Asset Recovery Section, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. Trial Attorneys Katherine Nielsen, Elizabeth S. Boison and Nikhila Raj, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Alixandra Smith and Whitman Knapp. The Justice Department’s Office of International Affairs provided assistance in this case. The commodities case is being investigated by the FBI’s New York Field Office, and is being prosecuted by the Fraud Section. Deputy Chief Brian R. Young, Assistant Chief Avi Perry, and Trial Attorney Leslie S. Garthwaite of the Fraud Section are prosecuting the case. ■

8 - Russian hacker who helped in attacks on American companies sentenced to 12 years in prison
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/russian-hacker-who-helped-in-attacks-on-american-companies-sentenced-to-12-years-in-prison/
Russian hacker who helped in attacks on American companies sentenced to 12 years in prison Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 8, 2021   Audrey Strauss, the Acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced yesterday that Andrei Tyurin, a/k/a “Andrei Tiurin,” was sentenced in Manhattan federal court to 144 months in prison for computer intrusion, wire fraud, bank fraud, and illegal online gambling offenses in connection with his involvement in a massive computer hacking campaign targeting U.S. financial institutions, brokerage firms, financial news publishers, and other American companies. Tyurin is charged with committing these crimes with Gery Shalon, a/k/a “Garri Shalelashvili,” a/k/a “Gabriel,” a/k/a “Gabi,” a/k/a “Phillipe Mousset,” a/k/a “Christopher Engeham,” Joshua Samuel Aaron, a/k/a “Mike Shields,” and Ziv Orenstein, a/k/a “Aviv Stein,” a/k/a “John Avery,” in furtherance of securities market manipulation, illegal online gambling, and payment processing fraud schemes perpetrated by Shalon, Aaron, Orenstein, and their co-conspirators. Tyurin previously pled guilty to these charges, and was sentenced yesterday before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain. Acting U.S. Attorney Audrey Strauss said: “From his home in Moscow, Andrei Tyurin played a major role in orchestrating and facilitating an international hacking campaign that included one of the largest thefts of U.S. customer data from a single financial institution in history, stealing the personal information of more than 80 million J.P. Morgan Chase customers. "The conspiracy targeted major financial institutions, brokerage firms, news agencies, and other companies, and netted Tyurin over $19 million in criminal proceeds. "Now Tyurin has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for his crimes.” According to the allegations contained in the Indictments to which Tyurin pled guilty, other filings in this case, and statements made during court proceedings, including Tyurin’s guilty plea hearing: From approximately 2012 to mid-2015, Tyurin engaged in an extensive computer hacking campaign targeting financial institutions, brokerage firms, and financial news publishers in the U.S. (including but not limited to J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, E*Trade, Scottrade, and the Wall Street Journal), and was responsible for the theft of personal information of over 100 million customers of the victim companies. Tyurin’s hack of J.P. Morgan Chase Bank alone resulted in the theft of personal information of over 80 million customers.  Tyurin engaged in these crimes at the direction of his partner Gery Shalon, and in furtherance of other criminal schemes overseen and operated by Shalon and his co-conspirators, including securities fraud schemes in the United States.  For example, in an effort to artificially inflate the price of certain stocks publicly traded in the U.S., Shalon and his co-conspirators marketed the stocks in a deceptive and misleading manner to customers of the victim companies whose contact information Tyurin stole in the intrusions. In addition to the U.S. financial sector hacks, from approximately 2007 to mid-2015 Tyurin also conducted cyberattacks against numerous U.S. and foreign companies in furtherance of various criminal enterprises operated by Shalon and his co-conspirators, including unlawful internet gambling businesses and international payment processors.  Nearly all of these illegal businesses, like the securities market manipulation schemes, exploited the fruits of Tyurin’s computer hacking campaigns.  Tyurin’s hacking activity included the targeting of companies known to be used for email marketing campaigns, competitor online casinos, and a merchant risk intelligence firm based in the United States, in order for the co-conspirators to monitor the firm’s efforts to audit potentially criminal online credit card transactions on behalf of major credit card networks, and thus avoid detection of their own criminal schemes. In furtherance of his hacking activities, Tyurin used computer infrastructure located across five continents, which he controlled from his home in Moscow, and maintained persistent access over extended periods of time to the victims’ networks, regularly refreshing the stolen data by repeatedly downloading information from these companies.  And once his hacking activities were detected, Tyurin worked with Shalon to destroy the evidence of their criminal activity and undermine U.S. law enforcement’s efforts to identify and arrest them. Through these various criminal schemes, Tyurin, Shalon, and their co-conspirators obtained hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit proceeds, and Tyurin himself earned over $19 million in profits from his hacking activity. Tyurin, 37, of Moscow, Russia, pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit computer hacking, one count of wire fraud, one count of conspiracy to violate the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud.  In addition, Tyurin pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and one count of conspiracy to commit computer hacking, from charges that were transferred from the Northern District of Georgia for purposes of his plea.  In addition to the prison term, Judge Swain ordered Tyurin to serve three years of supervised release, and to pay forfeiture in the amount of $19,214,956. The Court will determine Tyurin’s restitution obligations at a hearing scheduled for April 6, 2021.  Tyurin has been in U.S. custody since he was extradited from the country of Georgia in September 2018, and will commence serving his sentence immediately. Ms. Strauss praised the investigative work of the FBI and the U.S. Secret Service, and expressed her sincere gratitude to the Chief Prosecutor’s Office of Georgia and the Ministry of Justice of Georgia for their support and assistance with the extradition proceedings.  She also thanked the Securities and Exchange Commission, Homeland Security Investigations, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Office of International Affairs of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Criminal Division for its assistance with the extradition, and the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center, which significantly aided the investigation by facilitating information sharing among the victim institutions. The prosecution of this case is being overseen by the Office’s Complex Frauds and Cybercrime Unit.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eun Young Choi, Noah Solowiejczyk, and Sarah Lai are in charge of the prosecution. ■

9 - Boeing charged with 737 MAX fraud conspiracy and agrees to pay over $2.5 billion
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/boeing-charged-with-737-max-fraud-conspiracy-and-agrees-to-pay-over-25-billion/
Boeing charged with 737 MAX fraud conspiracy and agrees to pay over $2.5 billion Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 8, 2021   The Boeing Company has entered into an agreement with the Department of Justice to resolve a criminal charge related to a conspiracy to defraud the Federal Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Evaluation Group (FAA AEG) in connection with the FAA AEG’s evaluation of Boeing’s 737 MAX airplane. The criminal information charges the company with one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States. Under the terms of the DPA, Boeing will pay a total criminal monetary amount of over $2.5 billion, composed of a criminal monetary penalty of $243.6 million, compensation payments to Boeing’s 737 MAX airline customers of $1.77 billion, and the establishment of a $500 million crash-victim beneficiaries fund to compensate the heirs, relatives, and legal beneficiaries of the 346 passengers who died in the Boeing 737 MAX crashes of Lion Air Flight 610 and Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302. “The tragic crashes of Lion Air Flight 610 and Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 exposed fraudulent and deceptive conduct by employees of one of the world’s leading commercial airplane manufacturers,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General David P. Burns of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division. “Boeing’s employees chose the path of profit over candor by concealing material information from the FAA concerning the operation of its 737 Max airplane and engaging in an effort to cover up their deception. This resolution holds Boeing accountable for its employees’ criminal misconduct, addresses the financial impact to Boeing’s airline customers, and hopefully provides some measure of compensation to the crash-victims’ families and beneficiaries.”    As Boeing admitted in court documents, Boeing—through two of its 737 MAX Flight Technical Pilots—deceived the FAA AEG about an important aircraft part called the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) that impacted the flight control system of the Boeing 737 MAX. Because of their deception, a key document published by the FAA AEG lacked information about MCAS, and in turn, airplane manuals and pilot-training materials for U.S.-based airlines lacked information about MCAS. Boeing began developing and marketing the 737 MAX in or around June 2011. Before any U.S.-based airline could operate the new 737 MAX, U.S. regulations required the FAA to evaluate and approve the airplane for commercial use. In connection with this process, the FAA AEG was principally responsible for determining the minimum level of pilot training required for a pilot to fly the 737 MAX for a U.S.-based airline, based on the nature and extent of the differences between the 737 MAX and the prior version of Boeing’s 737 airplane, the 737 Next Generation (NG). At the conclusion of this evaluation, the FAA AEG published the 737 MAX Flight Standardization Board Report (FSB Report), which contained relevant information about certain aircraft parts and systems that Boeing was required to incorporate into airplane manuals and pilot-training materials for all U.S.-based airlines. The 737 MAX FSB Report also contained the FAA AEG’s differences-training determination. After the 737 MAX FSB Report was published, Boeing’s airline customers were permitted to fly the 737 MAX. Within Boeing, the 737 MAX Flight Technical Team (composed of 737 MAX Flight Technical Pilots) was principally responsible for identifying and providing to the FAA AEG all information that was relevant to the FAA AEG in connection with the FAA AEG’s publication of the 737 MAX FSB Report. Because flight controls were vital to flying modern commercial airplanes, differences between the flight controls of the 737 NG and the 737 MAX were especially important to the FAA AEG for purposes of its publication of the 737 MAX FSB Report and the FAA AEG’s differences-training determination. In and around November 2016, two of Boeing’s 737 MAX Flight Technical Pilots, one who was then the 737 MAX Chief Technical Pilot and another who would later become the 737 MAX Chief Technical Pilot, discovered information about an important change to MCAS. Rather than sharing information about this change with the FAA AEG, Boeing, through these two 737 MAX Flight Technical Pilots, concealed this information and deceived the FAA AEG about MCAS. Because of this deceit, the FAA AEG deleted all information about MCAS from the final version of the 737 MAX FSB Report published in July 2017. In turn, airplane manuals and pilot training materials for U.S.-based airlines lacked information about MCAS, and pilots flying the 737 MAX for Boeing’s airline customers were not provided any information about MCAS in their manuals and training materials. On Oct. 29, 2018, Lion Air Flight 610, a Boeing 737 MAX, crashed shortly after takeoff into the Java Sea near Indonesia. All 189 passengers and crew on board died. Following the Lion Air crash, the FAA AEG learned that MCAS activated during the flight and may have played a role in the crash. The FAA AEG also learned for the first time about the change to MCAS, including the information about MCAS that Boeing concealed from the FAA AEG. Meanwhile, while investigations into the Lion Air crash continued, the two 737 MAX Flight Technical Pilots continued misleading others—including at Boeing and the FAA—about their prior knowledge of the change to MCAS. On March 10, 2019, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, a Boeing 737 MAX, crashed shortly after takeoff near Ejere, Ethiopia. All 157 passengers and crew on board died. Following the Ethiopian Airlines crash, the FAA AEG learned that MCAS activated during the flight and may have played a role in the crash. On March 13, 2019, the 737 MAX was officially grounded in the U.S., indefinitely halting further flights of this airplane by any U.S.-based airline. As part of the DPA, Boeing has agreed, among other things, to continue to cooperate with the Fraud Section in any ongoing or future investigations and prosecutions. As part of its cooperation, Boeing is required to report any evidence or allegation of a violation of U.S. fraud laws committed by Boeing’s employees or agents upon any domestic or foreign government agency (including the FAA), regulator, or any of Boeing’s airline customers. In addition, Boeing has agreed to strengthen its compliance program and to enhanced compliance program reporting requirements, which require Boeing to meet with the Fraud Section at least quarterly and to submit yearly reports to the Fraud Section regarding the status of its remediation efforts, the results of its testing of its compliance program, and its proposals to ensure that its compliance program is reasonably designed, implemented, and enforced so that it is effective at deterring and detecting violations of U.S. fraud laws in connection with interactions with any domestic or foreign government agency (including the FAA), regulator, or any of its airline customers. The department reached this resolution with Boeing based on a number of factors, including the nature and seriousness of the offense conduct; Boeing’s failure to timely and voluntarily self‑disclose the offense conduct to the department; and Boeing’s prior history, including a civil FAA settlement agreement from 2015 related to safety and quality issues concerning the Boeing’s Commercial Airplanes (BCA) business unit. In addition, while Boeing’s cooperation ultimately included voluntarily and proactively identifying to the Fraud Section potentially significant documents and Boeing witnesses, and voluntarily organizing voluminous evidence that Boeing was obligated to produce, such cooperation, however, was delayed and only began after the first six months of the Fraud Section’s investigation, during which time Boeing’s response frustrated the Fraud Section’s investigation. ■

10 - Vivint Smart Homes Inc. to pay $3.2 million to resolve allegations of false statements
https://lite.poandpo.com/crime/vivint-smart-homes-inc-to-pay-32-million-to-resolve-allegations-of-false-statements/
Vivint Smart Homes Inc. to pay $3.2 million to resolve allegations of false statements Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 7, 2021   Vivint Smart Home Inc. based in Provo, Utah, has agreed to pay the United States $3.2 million to resolve allegations under the FIRREA that Vivint employees made false statements to secure financing for customers’ purchases of Vivint’s home monitoring products, the Justice Department announced. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) imposes civil penalties on any person or entity that violates certain predicate federal statutes. Vivint is a provider of smart home monitoring services and frequently obtains new ustomers through door-to-door sales by Vivint sales representatives.  The United States contended that, from 2017 to 2020, certain Vivint sales representatives used their personal funds to cover the cost of initial financing payments on behalf of Vivint customers who sought financing to purchase Vivint’s products, while making false and misleading statements to the federally insured financial institution providing the financing that made it appear as if the borrowers had funded the initial payments. The allegations resolved by the settlement were initially provided to the United States in a declaration submitted under the Financial Institutions Anti-Fraud Enforcement Act, which provides for rewards to eligible declarants who provide information about potential FIRREA violations. The declarant’s share of the recovery in this matter has not yet been determined. ■

12 - https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go

1 - Serbia opens longest gondola lift in the world at Zlatibor resort
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/serbia-opens-longest-gondola-lift-in-the-world-at-zlatibor-resort/
Serbia opens longest gondola lift in the world at Zlatibor resort  Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | January 19, 2021   Serbia has opened the longest gondola lift in the world dubbed 'Gold gondola Zlatibor' spanning nearly 9 kilometers at the Zlatibor ski resort. Nine kilometers long, the Zlatibor Gold Gondola now holds the record for the longest panoramic gondola lift in the world. The previous record was held by the Tianmen Shan cable car (7.4 km) in Zhangjiajie National Park in China, where the blockbuster movie Avatar was filmed, for which James Cameron won the Oscar for the best film. This state-of-the-art air route connects connect the centre of Zlatibor with the largest center of winter tourism in Serbia, Tornik. The gondola lift transports 1,200 passengers every hour and the journey takes about 25 minutes. Drop dead gorgeous views of rolling mountain slopes covered with golden pine trees, after which the mountain was named (the name Zlatibor consists of two Serbian words: zlatni, meaning golden, and bor meaning pine), will take your breath away. Currently being built at the Gold Gondola’s starting station, the largest adventure park in the Balkans will offer many leisure and recreational activities in the scenic setting of Zlatibor. ■

2 - New Zealand's largest free events returning in 2021 
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/new-zealands-largest-free-events-returning-in2021/
New Zealand's largest free events returning in 2021  Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | January 18, 2021   This year, due to well-known reasons, the regular three-day festival at Ports of Auckland will be condensed into a one night only concert and fireworks, the SeePort Concert & Fireworks.  The evenings line-up will be fully loaded with local talent, so come to Captain Cook Wharf for the SeePort Concert & Fireworks on Sunday 31 January 2021 to celebrate Auckland's birthday. You can bring a picnic or visit one of the many food vendors. The evening will conclude with BOOM! A spectacular fireworks finale! But that's not all! Also check the airforce drones. If you are lucky you could watch them race each other around the wharf. Or, watch the military dogs work their magic. Or, take a putt at their Supply Chain mini golf and have a good time with your friends. The port will also host other iconic Auckland events such are Tāmaki Herenga Waka Festival and the Lantern Festival to the waterfront to round out a summer of festivals on the wharves.  But that's still not all! For the first time in Auckland, the Royal New Zealand Navy will offer an open day and tours of the HMNZS Manawanui, a ship that conducts a range of specialised operations, from hydrography tasks to eradicating  explosive remnants of war  and salvage operations to find and recover submerged objects around New Zealand and across the South West Pacific. Choose and enjoy: Tāmaki Herenga Waka Festival: Saturday 23 January 2021 10am – 10pm Royal New Zealand Navy HMNZS Manawanui open day and NZDF displays: Sunday 31 January 2021, 10am – 4pm Ports of Auckland SeePort Concert & Fireworks: Sunday 31 January 2021, 4pm to late Lantern Festival: Thursday 25 – Sunday 28 February 2021 – new to the waterfront! ■

3 - Choco Loco, an exhibition that will make you melt
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/choco-loco-an-exhibition-that-will-make-you-melt/
Choco Loco, an exhibition that will make you melt Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | December 16, 2020   Train World Museum in Brussels, Belgium, invites you to explore the tasty world of chocolate.  Belgium’s railway network is the oldest on the European continent and it's chocolate industry became world famous following the invention of the praline. Now, the Choco Loco exhibition at Train World Museum enables you to explore both worlds until 21 February 2021. This exquisite cocoa-scented exhibition presents about twenty original chocolate sculptures of railway-related subjects created especially for the exhibition, designed by successful graphic-novel author and Train World scenographer François Schuiten, and made by the chocolate sculptors Peter Teerlinck and Bart Steegmans of Sculpture Events. These sculptures, inspired by the railway world, resonate with the authentic locomotives and the dazzling decor of Train World. Two famous Belgian chocolatiers, Pierre Marcolini and Dominique Persoone, have created an exclusive chocolate bar for the occasion, called L'Étoile du Nord.  This delicacy has been prepared with the best Criollo cocoa beans. These rare white beans have been cultivated in a sustainable and eco-ethical way on the estate of Mathieu Brees, a Belgian grower based in Mexico. This chocolate bar is exclusively available in the Train World shop. Buy your entrance ticket online and admire the exhibition in the best possible safety conditions. ■

4 - Erciyes Ski Resort, let a cold Turkish skiing adventure begin
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/erciyes-ski-resort-let-a-cold-turkish-skiing-adventure-begin/
Erciyes Ski Resort, let a cold Turkish skiing adventure begin Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | December 15, 2020   Located in Kayseri province,  Erciyes Ski Resort in central Turkey is the first and only ski center so far in the world which has been entitled to carry the certificate of Safe Ski Resort. Erciyes was certified by Bureau Veritas Turkey, a company specialized in testing, inspection and certification, for having taken all precautionary measures against the spread of coronavirus.   The ski centre at Mt Erciyes is located on the north to east side of the mountain with the same name. It is a 3917m high volcanic peak and provides impressive views from all around. The ski resort is based around 2100m, just 40 minutes from Kayseri International Airport. Elevated between 6890 ft and 11024 ft, Erciyes Ski Resort is the highest elevated ski resorts in Turkey. The vertical drop from summit to base is 4134 ft. The average difference in altitude between base and summit of ski resorts in Turkey is 2251 ft. Most runs are therefore relatively long and patrols are ready for first aid and search and rescue free of charge. Erciyes has 18 mechanical facilities at international standards, state-of-the-art technology and more than 100 kilometers (62 miles) of ski track. It offers skiers or snowboarders a safe and healthy holiday this winter. Beginners find easy practice slopes at the base area, and a ski school on Hisarcik Kapi. Experienced winder sportsmen take Ottoman lift to the highest point of the ski resort at 3,346m/10,978ft. This is also where the black run 14, the longest on Erciyes, starts.  ■

5 - Ishkashim border market, a strip where people of Tajikistan and Afghanistan come to market
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/ishkashim-border-market-a-strip-where-people-of-tajikistan-and-afghanistan-come-to-market/
Ishkashim border market, a strip where people of Tajikistan and Afghanistan come to market Christian Fernsby ▼ | December 14, 2020   Crossing the border from Tajikistan to Afghanistan is sometimes dangerous but in Afghanistan’s Wakhan Corridor anyone can freely cross the border, even those without a visa. The Ishkashim market is a strip of no man’s land where locals from both countries meet to buy and sell each other’s crafts. The mountainous Panj Rive divides Ishkashim, Tajikistan, and the Afghan town of the same name on the other side. The river is a neutral ground between the two countries, meaning any structure in the center of the river is easily accessible for both Afghans and Tajiks so long as they return to their respective countries after visiting. The border bazaar Ishkashim is accessible to locals from both sides, and occasionally foreign tourists drop by too. To enter the market, no long immigration process is required; an armed guard will take your passport preventing you from passing on to the Afghan side and instruct you to cross a bridge to the market. Inside the Ishkashim Market, you can haggle for delicious food, Afghan trinkets, pakol hats, and Tajik souvenirs. In addition to handcrafted goods, foreign products can also be found, including cheap clothing and household items from China, and more. The Ishkashim Market is open every Saturday. ■

6 - Frost Magical Ice of Siam: An amazing freezing cold experience in tropical Thailand
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/frost-magical-ice-of-siam-an-amazing-freezing-cold-experience-in-tropical-thailand/
Frost Magical Ice of Siam: An amazing freezing cold experience in tropical Thailand Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | December 9, 2020   Thailand has a tropical climate, right? So it would make no sense to you when we say come prepared and dress for cold, -10 degrees Celsius cold to be more precisely, but this is exactly what you should do. Pattaya, easily travelled to from Bangkok in less than two and a half hours, is a city on Thailand’s eastern Gulf coast known for its beautiful temples and beaches, amazing parties and many other activities to get involved when you get bored.  Its main less known attraction, Frost Magical Ice of Siam, is the location to escape the burning heat in Thailand all year round. So, gloves and hats are a good idea to bring with you. They provide jackets. Inside this magical attraction is the largest city in all of ASEAN nations made of ice sculptures inside an environment of -10 degrees.  That's indeed the opportunity to experience the cold of the Arctic while outdoors temperatures are some 40 degrees higher. Each image and structure represents an aspect of Siam and its rich culture.   There are currently four main zones to explore: the Himmapan (tells the story of magical beings and creatures), Siam Heaven (where you can see a collection of ice sculptures and constructions and slide down a giant ice slide), Frost Village (where you can take home souvenirs), and the Food Zone (where you can enjoy a Korean ice dessert).  So, step into a beautiful world of giant sculptures both inside and beyond the below zero degree playrooms. as you sip your soft drinks from a glass made of ice. ■

7 - Corral de Los Indios, Taino Indians astronomical site
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/corral-de-los-indios-taino-indians-astronomical-site/
Corral de Los Indios, Taino Indians astronomical site Christian Fernsby ▼ | December 8, 2020   One of the few pre-Columbian monuments that exist in the Dominican Republic, the Corral de Los Indios is located roughly 5 km north of the City of San Juan de la Maguana, near the center of the island of Hispaniola.  It is among the most important pre-Columbian monuments of the Antilles. The site is composed of a circular clearing some 235 meters diameter, with a big stone in the center. It is said that the site originally had two rows of black stones forming two concentric circles around the center which were destroyed for the hydraulic works in the Canal Juan de Herrera. The site was further damaged in 1918 when Americans invaded the country. Between 1960 and 1965, restoration work was done by Emil Moya Boyra. It is believed the site was a ceremonial place for the Caonabo and Anacaona Indians as well as a astronomical instrument. It is said that from the center rock astronomical phenomena could be observed and lined up with the outer rings of rock with great precision. ■

8 - Lake Turkana, a permanent lake in Kenyan desert
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/lake-turkana-a-permanent-lake-in-kenyan-desert/
Lake Turkana, a permanent lake in Kenyan desert Christian Fernsby ▼ | December 7, 2020   Lake Turkana, Africa’s most saline lake, is a wonder located in the arid desert region of the Kenyan Rift Valley. Also known as Lake Rudolf after European visitors named the lake after a 19th century Austrian prince, and Jade Lake for the verdant color of the water, Lake Turkana is a vast but shallow body of water that stretches over 200 kilometers long and up to 30 kilometers wide. Lake Turkana is an imperative resource for peoples in the surrounding desert region, migratory birds including flamingos, cormorants, and kingfishers, and local wildlife like the Nile Crocodile, hippos, and fish such as Nile perch, tigerfish, and tilapia. Lake Turkana and its islands were designated national parks in the 1970s and 80s. In 1997, Lake Turkana National Parks were collectively made a UNESCO World Heritage Site for the region’s extraordinary biodiversity. The eastern side of Lake Turkana is slightly more populated, but supply stations are few and it’s suggested that travelers bring extra gas, drinking water, and camping supplies. ■

9 - Rare Watches New York, a Christie's auction you should not miss 
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/rare-watches-new-york-a-christies-auction-you-should-not-miss-/
Rare Watches New York, a Christie's auction you should not miss  Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | December 2, 2020   The ongoing Rare Watches New York Online auction will brighten the year of every real  connoisseur of timepieces.  It features a selection of important vintage and modern timepieces celebrating the most renowned manufactures such as Patek Philippe, Rolex, Cartier, F.P. Journe, Audemars Piguet and many more. The sale will feature incredible rarities, including a magnificent ($400,000-600,000) Patek Philippe in pink gold retailed by Serpico Y Laino, an extremely rare ($250,000-450,000) Patek Philippe Nautilus in pink gold and a magnificently preserved ($240,000-440,000) Rolex now known as “Jean Claude Killy”, after the celebrated Olympic skier and Rolex ambassador. The auction will present a great selection of Rolex Daytona chronographs, led by a  ($300,000-500,000) Paul Newman “Panda” dial showing attractive signs of tropicalization. An iconic variant, Rolex wristwatches with Paul Newman “Panda” dials are widely sought-after and considered part of the most elegant designs ever created by the Rolex manufacture. With a Patek Philippe selection of great depth, the sale will include an example of the iconic 18K gold  ($350,000-450,000) Patek Philippe (pictured) and a selection of important pocket watches; two highly attractive minute repeating pocket watches with American calendar,  and the possibly unique pocket chronometer with spring detent escapement and minute repeating mechanism. For ladies, there is 18K gold ($40,000-80,000) Patek Philippe, Chrysoprase, black Onyx and diamond-set bracelet watch and matching necklace. ■

10 - Stevens Pass, a snow magnet for ski fanatics set to open
https://lite.poandpo.com/places-to-go/stevens-pass-a-snow-magnet-for-ski-fanatics-set-to-open/
Stevens Pass, a snow magnet for ski fanatics set to open Nalynn Dolan Caine ▼ | December 1, 2020   Spend the day skiing on one of 49 Stevens Pass' trails as it plans to open on December 4, 2020. Nestled into the mountains, a picture perfect Stevens Pass ski area with an annual snowfall averaging 460" each year, offers unparalleled day and night skiing from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. during peak season, so you can enjoy the otherworldly experience of riding under the lights well after the sun goes down. All you need is to pick a specific date to ski and buy a ticket in advance online or over the phone. Individual tickets, in the $90 range for adults, will go on sale starting December 8. Pass sales will go “off sale” on December 6. Take the best of its new pass holder loyalty program Epic Mountain Rewards. Epic Mountain Rewards gives pass holders a discount of 20% off food and beverage, lodging, group ski and ride school lessons, equipment rentals. Additionally, as part of Epic Mountain Rewards, pass holders can redeem one free wax and 50% off one basic tune per season at select U.S. locations. Epic Mountain Rewards is available to anyone who purchases an Epic Pass, Epic Local Pass, Epic Day Pass, Epic Military Pass, Epic Australia Pass, and many of the company’s other regional season pass products.  Group and private lessons will be offered this season. All Ski and Ride School classes will have a maximum class size of six.  The 5-and 6-year-old lessons will be a maximum class size of four. For 3 and 4 year olds, who often spend a good portion of their lesson indoors, they will offer one-on-one, one-hour lessons. Three- and four-year old children are also welcome to join their family in a full or half day private lesson. Face coverings will be required to access the mountain, including in lift lines and while loading, unloading and riding on chairlifts. Full service, sit down restaurants will operate with reduced seating, spaced to enable physical distancing. Full service bars will not be open at the resorts this winter. ■

13 - https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air

1 - Bavaria C50, the pleasure of sailing and relaxation
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/bavaria-c50-the-pleasure-of-sailing-and-relaxation/
Bavaria C50, the pleasure of sailing and relaxation Edward Green ▼ | December 17, 2020   The Bavaria C50 sailing yacht is about the pleasure of sailing, but it’s about relaxation too. You can enjoy a fabulous time on water or on land, and with a lot of people. That’s because, as well as a three, four and five‐cabin version there is even a six‐cabin version available. As with the Bavaria C45, the C50 comes in two different equipment levels: ’Holiday’ and ’Style’. A touch of superyacht, even below deck. Everything feels enormous. For example, sit on the big lounge sofa at the saloon table, surrounded by lots of natural light streaming in through the stylish light‐strip. In the evening, an intelligent LED lighting concept creates a pleasant atmosphere. For instance: when dinner is being prepared in the extra‐large pantry and you look up at the starry sky through the big deck hatches. The walk‐on deck is free of edges and steps, the hatches recessed into the deck provide optimum lighting and ventilation. Everything on Bavaria C45 is clear and minimalist, reflecting our understanding of good, modern yacht design. Hull windows: Embedded into the elegant, flat lines of the hull are fabulously large windows that provide more light below deck. XXL bathing platform: 2.68 metres of width for everything that’s fun right next to the water: sunbathing together, swimming, diving there’s space for it all. Nothing should get in the way of the pleasure of sailing. That’s why both helmstands give you a perfect view of the sails and the route ahead. Everything is always in sight including the instruments, which are extremely easy to operate. Even turning is easy, thanks to a self‐tacking jib. The Bavaria C50 also has a good potential for speed. The performance rig is pure joy, even for ambitious sailors, and it makes the yacht fast and safe in any weather. The BAVARIA C50 STYLE is the perfect choice for demanding owners. As its name suggest, it means your holiday can begin. Everything you need is on board anchor winches, navigation instruments and everything else besides. ou can also enjoy the highest degree of seaworthiness that a sailing yacht can offer. ■

2 - For adventurers and wanderers, MINI Countryman Boardwalk
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/for-adventurers-and-wanderers-mini-countryman-boardwalk/
For adventurers and wanderers, MINI Countryman Boardwalk Edward Green ▼ | December 10, 2020   The new MINI Countryman is as equipped for the challenges of everyday life as it is for spontaneous excursions beyond the city limits and adventures on unpaved terrain. Its versatile character is now enhanced with a stylish touch. An exterior finish in Deep Laguna metallic and exclusive design features for the exterior and interior make the new MINI Countryman Boardwalk stand-out both on the metropolitan promenades and during trips to the beach. The model is produced as a limited edition, is immediately available and can be ordered in three model variants. The Deep Laguna metallic body colour effectively showcases the powerfully modelled surfaces of the MINI Countryman. The high-quality shimmering blue tone was previously developed exclusively for the MINI Convertible Sidewalk edition model, also a limited edition, and sparked enthusiasm in the MINI community. Now the wish of many MINI fans to make this colour available for the new MINI Countryman is fulfilled. It is combined with a black contrast finish on the roof and exterior mirror caps. The name of the edition refers to the promenades of traditional seaside resorts in the British home of the MINI brand. The often mile-long walkways, which connect spas and serve as access to the typical English piers, were originally the preferred stage for large social performances. The characteristic pattern of the wooden beams laid longitudinally and diagonally on the promenades now serve as the inspiration for the emblem of the new edition. A stripe pattern in Deep Laguna metallic and black metallic with the lettering BOARDWALK adorns the frame of the side trims known as Side Scuttles. The new MINI Countryman Boardwalk is available in three model variants. In the MINI Cooper Countryman Boardwalk (fuel consumption combined: 5.9 to 5.6 l/100 km; CO2 emissions combined: 135 to 129 g/km) a three-cylinder petrol engine with MINI TwinPower Turbo technology produces a maximum output of 100 kW/136 hp. A four-cylinder petrol engine with 131 kW/178 hp drives the MINI Cooper S Countryman Boardwalk (fuel consumption combined: 6.5 to 6.3 l/100 km; CO2 emissions combined: 148 to 144 g/km) and MINI Cooper S Countryman ALL4 Boardwalk (fuel consumption combined: 6.5 to 6.2 l/100 km; CO2 emissions combined: 149 to 142 g/km). ■

3 - New Mercedes Maybach S Class: A new definition of luxury
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/new-mercedes-maybach-s-class-a-new-definition-of-luxury/
New Mercedes Maybach S Class: A new definition of luxury Edward Green ▼ | December 3, 2020   The Mercedes Maybach S Class is particularly suitable for chauffeured driving. The 18 cm longer wheelbase compared to the long variant of the Mercedes Benz S Class entirely benefits the rear. This is underlined by even more refined appointments. The massage function of the calfrests on the Executive seats is a new feature. On request, the exclusive appearance of the Mercedes Maybach S Class can be enhanced by a two tone paint finish with dividing line. This is applied by hand according to the highest quality criteria. Distinguishing features at the front include the distinctive bonnet with a chromed fin and the Mercedes Maybach radiator grille with fine, vertical chrome pinstripes. The Mercedes Maybach S Class also differs from its brother models when viewed from the side: the rear doors are wider, and the C pillars feature a fixed quarterlight. A Maybach brand logo on the C pillar underlines the exclusivity. On request, the Mercedes Maybach S Class can be equipped with electrically operated comfort rear doors. With this feature, the wide rear doors can be conveniently opened and closed with little force even on a gradient. Integration into the infotainment and control system MBUX and Blind Spot Assist ensures a high level of operating convenience and additional safety. The rear doors can also be operated from the driver's seat an important function when chauffeur driven. Digital light technology celebrated its world debut in small series production of the preceding model, but is now in full series production with the new S Class generation. The interior of the Mercedes Maybach S Class is based on the completely new interior design of the new Mercedes‑Benz S Class. The large areas of trim on the front seats are a new feature in the Mercedes Maybach. High‑quality wood surrounds encase the rear of the front seat backrests, giving the impression of generous lounge seats. If the First Class Rear is specified, a similarly striking area of trim is positioned between the two rear passengers. ■

4 - New Lincoln Nautilus brings serene design to its category
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/new-lincoln-nautilus-brings-serene-design-to-its-category/
New Lincoln Nautilus brings serene design to its category Edward Green ▼ | November 26, 2020   Lincoln introduced the new Nautilus showcasing the brand’s signature design, elevated technology and a new interior that brings a sense of calm and sanctuary to the midsize luxury SUV segment. With the signature design elements inspired by the horizon, Nautilus offers clients a serene, sanctuary like interior. Nautilus’ smooth ride and handling enhance the midsize SUV’s effortless performance, while, intuitive technologies bring new levels of simplicity and connectivity. The 2021 Nautilus bring the new SYNC® 4* system on a screen to the Lincoln portfolio. With a coast to coast view from the cabin that mirrors a classic view of the horizon, the new interior design of the 2021 Nautilus provides a calming environment, consistent with Lincoln’s Quiet Flight DNA. Sophisticated colors and materials serve to complement the design in the new Nautilus. Two new standard interior colors in addition to two Lincoln Black Label themes Chalet and Flight provide elegant choices for the discerning Nautilus client. Sandstone, a new color family across the portfolio, showcases neutral tones with higher color contrasts varying from light to dark. Black Ebony returns with new Roast accents on the seats, doors and console armrests, as well as the mid horizontal instrument panel, and luxury brown tones harmonize with black contrasts, real wood finishes and bright chrome accents.   The Black Label Chalet theme evokes contrasting pleasures of mountain slopes and the warm comfort of an après ski lodge, with Espresso and Alpine Venetian leathers and deep Silverwood appliqués, while Flight, available next year, harmoniously combines rich leathers and other materials to give the sensation of taking to the skies. With a more polished, refined front end, three new exterior colors are available for Nautilus Asher Gray, also available in a sleek Monochromatic Package, Green Gem and signature Lincoln Flight Blue. An available 2.7 liter twin turbocharged engine offers a blend of power and refinement, delivering 335 horsepower and 380 lb. ft. of torque. The 2.0 liter turbocharged remains standard, with its 250 horsepower and 280 lb. ft. of torque. Both engines include standard Auto Start Stop capability and an 8 speed transmission for smooth acceleration and an effortless drive experience. Nautilus will continue to be built in Oakville, Ontario, for North America and will arrive in dealerships early next year. ■

5 - Lamborghini Huracan STO, 470 kW for road enjoyment
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/lamborghini-huracan-sto-470-kw-for-road-enjoyment/
Lamborghini Huracan STO, 470 kW for road enjoyment Edward Green ▼ | November 19, 2020   Automobili Lamborghini presented the Lamborghini Huracan STO Super Trofeo Omologata: a road homologated super sports car. With its V10 naturally aspirated 470 kW engine producing 565 Nm on 6,500 rpm, the rear wheel drive Huracan STO delivers exhilarating acceleration of 0 100 km/h in 3.0 seconds, 0 200 km/h in 9.0 seconds and a top speed of 310 km/h. However, its heart beats with the exhilaration and emotion of a racecar. Superior aerodynamic efficiency, extensive use of lightweight materials, unfettered steering and first class braking performance, ensure the Huracan STO delivers the emotion of a track experience on every road drive. The Huracan STO sports an entirely new exterior design, revising its inimitable Lamborghini profile to optimize airflow. Every aspect of the Huracan STO draws on the aerodynamic efficiency and lightweight technologies demanded in motorsports. The Huracan STO embodies the principle that Lamborghini design always follows function: even more valid for a street homologated car inspired by a racecar. The comprehensive aerodynamic solutions inspired by Squadra Corse racecars maximize aerodynamic performance. The Huracan STO uses carbon fiber in more than 75% of its exterior panels, benefiting from complex structures produced as a single component for increased integrity while also reducing weight via less fixing points. Thanks to this technology, the Huracan STO uses 25% less carbon fiber material while maintaining the same structural rigidity. At a dry weight of 1,339 kg, the Huracan STO’s weight is reduced by 43 kg compared to the already lightweight Huracan Performante. The Huracan STO has at its heart the V10 aspirated engine of the Huracan EVO and Super Trofeo, outputting 570 kW and 565 Nm of torque at 6,500 rpm.  With an increased wheel track, stiffer suspension bushing, specific anti roll bars and Lamborghini’s MagneRide 2.0, the STO delivers all the emotion of a racecar while providing a comfortable road experience. The engine has been calibrated for a very sporty and responsive racing feel, with a direct pedal to throttle feeling and improved engine sound sharpness at high revs. The gearchange speed has been further increased to provide a highly responsive and rapid gearshift. ■

6 - First ever BMW iX looks very exciting
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/first-ever-bmw-ix-looks-very-exciting/
First ever BMW iX looks very exciting Edward Green ▼ | November 12, 2020   The BMW Group provided a first look ahead to the future BMW iX. The BMW iX is the first model based on a new, modular, scalable future toolkit developed by the BMW Group and focused on a fresh interpretation of design, sustainability, driving pleasure, versatility and luxury. Conceived from the outset for purely electric mobility, the iX sees BMW redefining the successful Sports Activity Vehicle (SAV) concept. With its completely newly developed, precise and minimalist design, the BMW iX is the first representative of a trailblazing generation of cars poised to redefine the driving experience, the feeling of space inside and the relationship between vehicles and those on board. The BMW iX harnesses the latest innovations in the fields of electrification, automated driving and connectivity to deliver a mobility experience which puts people more than ever at its heart. To this end, its design has been developed from the inside out. The BMW iX has been created to provide quality of life and wellbeing for drivers and passengers. The clear and minimalist design of its exterior showcases a new form of mobility geared squarely to the needs of the vehicle’s occupants. The fifth generation of BMW eDrive technology which encompasses the two electric motors, the power electronics, the charging technology and the high-voltage battery guarantees exceptional efficiency. The power unit developed by the BMW Group has been manufactured sustainably without the use of critical raw materials known as rare earths and will, by the most recent calculations, develop maximum output of more than 370 kW/500 hp. That will be enough to power the BMW iX from 0 to 100 km/h in under 5.0 seconds. The new technology toolkit making its debut in the BMW iX also provides the platform for significant progress in the areas of automated driving and digital services. At the centre of the front end stands the prominent, vertically emphasised kidney grille. Since the electric drive system of the BMW iX requires only a small amount of cooling air, the kidney grille is completely blanked off. Its role has duly turned digital and here it functions as an intelligence panel. Camera technology, radar functions and other sensors are integrated seamlessly into the grille behind a transparent surface. ■

7 - New Nissan Navara, most advanced model ever
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/new-nissan-navara-most-advanced-model-ever/
New Nissan Navara, most advanced model ever Edward Green ▼ | November 5, 2020   Nissan unveiled the new Nissan Navara pickup, that delivers an enhanced level of safety and driving pleasure. Among the Nissan Intelligent Mobility features that will be available across the global Navara and Frontier lineup is Intelligent Forward Collision Warning, which monitors the second vehicle ahead as well as the vehicle directly in front to reduce the risk of multi car accidents. Intelligent Emergency Braking activates the brakes to avoid collisions, reducing the stress of driving in traffic or on busy streets. Intelligent Around View Monitor uses four cameras to help drivers notice people and cars surrounding and approaching the vehicle, making it easier to parallel park or to position the vehicle when hitching to a trailer. New to the system is an off-road monitor, which checks surrounding obstacles at low speeds when in four-wheel drive mode. The new model features a strengthened rear axle, increased payload capacity, additional truck bed volume and a new integrated step in the rear bumper for easier access to the truck bed. A new steering rack has been adopted to enhance maneuverability at low speeds and steering response across the speed range. It offers a quiet and comfortable ride thanks to significant decrease of vibration and improved noise isolation. These new features make the vehicle the ultimate travel and worksite partner, prepared to take on new challenges while still offering optimal room, comfort, safety and ease of work. The new model features an “unbreakable” design language. It introduces a new ruggedly bold, stylish exterior made for extreme elements. For the first time for the Navara and Frontier, Nissan will offer the PRO-4X grade, a style package aimed at adventure lovers and travelers craving an escape from their daily routine. The PRO-4X grade comes with its own athletic look, with a black emblem, orange-accented front bumper, black grille, door handles, roof racks and running boards accented by 17-inch black wheels and all-terrain tires. the new Nissan Navara comes with many best-in-class technologies, including an array of Nissan Intelligent Mobility features and safety systems, making it the most advanced Navara yet. Building on more than 80 years of Nissan pickup heritage, it stays true to the company’s belief in bringing advanced technologies to as many customers as possible. ■

8 - 2021 Nissan Titan, V8 and 9 speed automatic for ultimate pleasure
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/2021-nissan-titan-v8-and-9-speed-automatic-for-ultimate-pleasure/
2021 Nissan Titan, V8 and 9 speed automatic for ultimate pleasure Edward Green ▼ | October 29, 2020   2021 Nissan Titan checks all the boxes for power, capability, and reliability plus bold style and innovation. Every 2021 Titan comes standard with Nissan Safety Shield, a suite of advanced driver assist systems, and America’s Best Truck Warranty, featuring bumper to bumper coverage of 5 years/100,000 miles, whichever comes first includes basic and powertrain coverage. The 2021 Titan is powered by Nissan’s 5.6 liter Endurance V8 gasoline engine rated at 400 horsepower and 413 lb ft of torque. Both horsepower and torque ratings are best in class for standard powertrains. The engine is mated with a 9 speed automatic transmission with a large final gear ratio of 3.692:1 providing smooth, fast acceleration. The 9 speed gear range also means excellent coverage for optimal power for both standing starts and confident highway passing. The engine features Nissan's VVEL (Variable Valve Event and Lift) technology, which combines hydraulic controlled variable valve timing and electronically controlled variable valve lift on the intake side to provide high performance and crisp response. The Endurance V8 also features Direct Injection Gas (DIG) technology, which provides better wide open throttle performance and improved fuel economy and emissions performance versus a non direct injection system by reducing engine knock, improving combustion stability and offering precise injection control. Every Titan also utilizes a durable chassis design, starting with the fully boxed, full length ladder frame. The front suspension is a double wishbone design, while a rigid rear axle suspension utilizes hefty leaf springs and leaf bushings, along with twin tube shock absorbers. Titan’s 8.0 inch center area display is the largest standard screen in the class9, while the available Integrated Command Center with 9.0 inch touchscreen features WXGA resolution higher than HD. It serves as the gateway to the Titan’s next generation connectivity that includes standard Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. The internal Wi Fi router allows passengers to stream their favorite content. Up to seven devices can be connected. ■

9 - New Mercedes S-Class goes on sale
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/new-mercedes-sclass-goes-on-sale/
New Mercedes S-Class goes on sale Edward Green ▼ | October 22, 2020   New generation of the world's bestselling luxury sedan: The new Mercedes S-Class is now available for order with prices starting at EUR 93,438. Deliveries in Europe will start in December. Daimler Mobility AG offers individual financing and use models. The range spans from multi-year financing contracts and flexible leasing to long-term and short-term rentals, as well as on-demand mobility solutions and an in-car payment function. The S-Class can be experienced with almost all senses vision, touch, hearing, and smell and also offers numerous innovations that provide driver support, protection and interaction, for example. The Driving Assistance Package and the MBUX infotainment system with the "Hey Mercedes" voice assistant come with many new functions, and both are integrated as standard. The large central display in portrait orientation is the visual highlight in the interior. In Germany, this screen features OLED technology as standard. At the touch of a button, the new 3D driver display (EUR 1,148.401) provides real depth perception of the surroundings for the first time, thanks to eye-tracking. The very large head-up display with augmented reality content (EUR 3,468.401 in package with 3D driver display) is equally impressive. The MBUX Interior Assist (EUR 626.401) recognizes numerous desired control inputs by means of cameras in the overhead control panel and learning algorithms. Active ambient lighting (EUR 916.401) with around 250 LEDs is integrated into the driver assistance systems and can visually reinforce their warnings. Furthermore, the lighting can provide feedback acknowledging control inputs or "Hey Mercedes" commands. In the event of a severe frontal collision, the rear airbag[2] (EUR 580[3]) can considerably reduce the loads acting on the heads and shoulders of the belted outer rear seat occupants. Thanks to rear-axle steering (EUR 1,5083), the S-Class feels as maneuverable as a compact car around town. The revolutionary headlamp technology DIGITAL LIGHT (EUR 2,192.403) enables completely new functions, e.g. the projection of guidelines or warning symbols onto the road surface. ■

10 - 2021 Porsche Panamera, the beauty and twin turbo V8 beast
https://lite.poandpo.com/on-sea-land-and-in-the-air/2021-porsche-panamera-the-beauty-and-twin-turbo-v8-beast/
2021 Porsche Panamera, the beauty and twin turbo V8 beast Edward Green ▼ | October 15, 2020   The Porsche Panamera is significantly enhanced and redesigned for the 2021 model year. Further improving performance was a key priority, and several new powertrains reflect that. Featuring changes to the crankshaft, connecting rods, timing chain drive and torsional vibration dampers, as well as new fuel injectors and a reduced compression ratio, an uprated 4.0 liter twin turbo V8 making 620 horsepower and 604 lb. ft. of torque is at the heart of the new Panamera Turbo S model, which replaces the previous Panamera Turbo (550 hp and 567 lb. ft.). This new engine enables the Panamera Turbo S sedan and Sport Turismo models to run from 0 to 100 kmh, using Launch Control, in 2.9 seconds (3.0 seconds for the Panamera Turbo S Executive), 0.5 seconds quicker than the previous Panamera Turbo models. All Panamera Turbo S models reach a top track speed of 315 kmh. The twin turbo V8 in the sporty Panamera GTS (473 hp and 457 lb. ft.) benefits from a 20 hp increase compared to the previous model, and its throttle calibration is tuned to resemble the responsiveness and finesse of a naturally aspirated engine even more closely. The new generation of Panamera is characterized by a number of styling updates. All Panamera models now feature the SportDesign front fascia previously optional as standard, further sharpening the front design of the car. A redesigned SportDesign package, either with or without carbon fiber, will be available as an upgrade. A new continuous light strip spreads out across the rear of the car, seamlessly connecting the two tail lights, while the lower rear fascia sports new diffuser fins. A new 20 inch wheel design and two new 21 inch wheel designs are available. The Panamera GTS stands out with an updated front and rear SportDesign fascia in Satin Black, along with the GTS specific Satin Black 20 inch Panamera Design wheels and Exclusive Design tinted taillights, as well as black lettering and model designations. Standard on the GTS, the Sport Exhaust System has been designed to emphasize the emotional rumble of the V8 engine and is available on the Panamera Turbo S. Underscoring their impressive performance figures, the new Panamera Turbo S variants are fitted with a model specific front fascia that features larger air intakes and new Turbo S specific front light signature. ■

14 - https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff

1 - Anne Touraine Paris, a passion for scarves and elegance
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/anne_touraine/
Anne Touraine Paris, a passion for scarves and elegance Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | December 19, 2020   If you are looking for a beautiful gift or a chic addition to your clothes for its fresher look, then Anne Touraine Paris silk scarves are The Way to go. After seeing Paris you can only say Paris je T’aime. And there's no better way to celebrate the world’s most romantic city than a delightfully pastel Anne Touraine Paris scarf Misty Rose. If you have been to Paris, you will treasure this silk scarf as a precious souvenir from France. It will remind you of Montmartre, the Eiffel Tower, the Seine River and other spots you loved. If going to Paris is still one of your dreams, this scarf will be a foretaste of the city of love. From youth to utmost elegance this Anne Touraine silk scarf emphasizes the true spirit of a modern woman. Explore the large array of sophisticated details which makes the charm of this adorable scarf inspired by the French Haute Couture world. Its extremely womanly design will accent casual and dressed up attires as well so it's impossible to imagine a woman that this scarf does not fit gracefully. Wear it as a delicate neck scarf or, to feature its complete and striking design, as a superb silky shoulder wrap. Silk chiffon scarf Montmartre will remind you of the favorite place of all Parisian artists. And indeed, as there no other place like Montmartre, there's no other creation so visibly inspired by the world's best artists place than this precious extra large silk scarf. Its intricate mosaic pattern explores a complex palette of turquoise blues and greens. This scarf will add the perfect pop of color you need to enhance a black top. Or Little Black Dress. Or jeans. Or a blouse. Or whatevery yout want. Wear it year round with confidence. Grey and white silk twilly Cannes is a delightfully versatile and trendy accessory which allows many fun and creative styles. You can give your bag a modern twist by wrapping a twilly around the handle, you can wear it as a cute headband or as an adorable mini neck scarf. Tied around your wrist or your ankle for a personalized touch will be a good option too and the options are endless. You can combine them all with an Anne Touraine scarf ring or scarf pendant handcrafted in exotic wood or mother of pearl, and you are ready to shine. ■

2 - Agent Provocateur, a way to spoil someone special
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/agent-provocateur-a-way-to-spoil-someone-special/
Agent Provocateur, a way to spoil someone special Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | December 12, 2020   This holiday seasons, secretly enclosed in a luxury gift box, your present to someone special  doesn't have to be a big one. For as long as it is silk. London’s Soho has long been the beating heart of the city’s counterculture and every city deserves one of those because every counterculture brings new and fresh ideas that somehow find their way into every part of our societies. When some 25 years ago Agent Provocateur opened its doors, it marked the start of a very successful brand that celebrates feminine narrative. Well, they make stuff for men too but the female stuff are really something special, like this Amelea powder pink pyjama top from luxurious stretch silk satin. Appliqued black leavers lace gives it an elegant look and you can wear it as a short robe. Another great Amelea pyjama top follows the luxurious look of the whole line. From an effortlessly romantic heritage inspired collection this ivory pyjama top was made from luxurious stretch silk satin in a classic wrap style with belt at the waist. With its longer length and long sleeves it can be worn as a short robe. It has traditional look and feel, Agent Provocateur says, but it was elevated to another level of romance and style you can't find anywhere else. It's simple but great in its simplicity. Classic Pj Top brings stars to your life. This comes from Agent Provocateur nightwear range and their celestial print features a host of monochrome stars. Its comfortable fit was inspired by men's pyjamas but adapted to fits every woman. A classic pyjama top in oyster with a black star print was crafted from silk with contrasting piping at the lapels. Wide belt at the waist completes the picture and if you wear it with the matching trousers you will get a perfect night combination that will provoke your best memories. If you want more color Christi jacket if perfect for you. This timeless romance embodies in olive green jacket made from stretch silk has discreet clasps, plunging neckline, and matching waist sash belt. Plum leavers lace trim adds to elegance and timeless of this piece. You can wear it open or closed with lingerie or outerwear, it doesn't matter, it will always look fantastic. Whatever your romantic night dresses are, the chance is Agent Provocateur will provide, and even more. No wonder the counterculture became the luxurious culture. ■

3 - Crazy, brave, mysterious Tres Tintas wallpapers
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/crazy-brave-mysterious-tres-tintas-wallpapers/
Crazy, brave, mysterious Tres Tintas wallpapers Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | November 28, 2020   From the city of Barcelona Tres Tintas brought spectacular wallpaper designs to all who love something beautiful and unexpected. Following, most probably, unconsicously the path that Ildefons Cerdà revolutionary set in the city construction, Tres Tintas went their own way, so different that others, yet so captivating and unexpectedly refined. A family business for decades managed to surprise us with every wallpaper design they bring from international designers. Take, for example, Worn Wood from the Curious collection. A simple idea but so beautifully executed, it brings the nature into your room in an unmistakably Tres Tintas way. Perspective Manoir is something for what you will say "That's crazy!" and after that "I love it!" This may be the last image caught of a magnificent inner facade. The walls and floor almost caved in when shooting this photograph. The true to size windows offer light and a view where there was previously just a plain wall. Just imagine stepping into a room with Perspective Manoir. There's no doubt you would stand there for a while and admire the imagination that give a totally new look to that part of the house. If you like mechanics and all its intricacies, Steampunk Mechanics is for you. It doesn't matter is your whole design old or modern, this will fit into your room just like that. It is bold and brave, but executed in such a way that's subtle but with a strong message and focal points. And indeed, there are focal points everywhere and you may be sure your room won't be boring anymore. You wil discover new details and patterns everywhere you look and the chance is this will become the most interesting wall in your house. And then there is a stroke of pure genius, Bleached Baroque. Hang this mural in your house and you might find traces of these voices on your walls, as it instantly adds mystery, depth, and character to any space. This work is calling you to look and imagine all stories, events, people, ideas, and lives that might live in it. It looks like a simple picture but again the execution is what differs it from a simple picture. Bleached Baroque is a huge wall of art in your home. One of the best works Tres Tintas has to offer. ■

4 - Exquisite flatware from the only manufacturer in America
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/exquisite-flatware-from-the-only-manufacturer-in-america/
Exquisite flatware from the only manufacturer in America Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | November 21, 2020   You might be suprised but there are great everday things that are not coming from China. One of them are excellent sets of Liberty Tabeltop flatware, from the only flatware manufacturer in the U.S. Unless we are in an expensive hotel, utensils are something we don't pay much attention to. If the function is good and if flatware looks decent, we'll buy it. But there's much more to it, from a functional point of view to carefully crafted design. Liberty Lux Line is their heaviest and most finely polished flatware pieces. Great attention is paid to the smallest of details from polishing in between fork tines to inspection for slight surface imperfections. The forks, spoons and serving pieces are made from the finest stainless to ensure decades of luster. European flatware are of a diffent design and usually has elongated fork tines. It’s a design trend that has caught on with many American flatware companies. Created with the tradition of Old England in mind, a connection between the European and American style in a sense, the Sheffield pattern is truly elegant. This vintage design is skillfully crafted in quality stainless steel and then polished to a lustrous mirror finish. Its classic style and intricate ornamental detail will look stunning on any table. The Kensington pattern features an elegant and timeless scrolled design bringing grace and style to your tabletop. Created slightly larger than traditional American sizing, Kensington’s heavy weight and exceptional balance make it as practical as it is tasteful. The ornamental detail is beautifully crafted and is sure to appear exceptional with any décor. All details are beautiful but not over the top so this flatware may be used in a luxury environment or in any home for everyday tasks. Chesapeake is an interesting collection. Skillfully crafted, Chesapeake offers a stunning mirror finish with a timeless colonial outline. Chesapeake is made using the finest American sourced stainless steel, making it as durable as it is beautiful. This design is perfect for every occasion from formal settings to everyday eating thanks to its modern look that seamlessly fits any desk, from your children's breakfast table to a big table for all your friends and family. Elegance and balance are words that describe the Chesapeake line best. ■

5 - Mikimoto, Japanese legend of timeless cultivated pearls
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/mikimoto-japanese-legend-of-timeless-cultivated-pearls/
Mikimoto, Japanese legend of timeless cultivated pearls Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | November 14, 2020   Mikimoto, the pioneer brand in the artificial culture of pearls founded in the 19th century, the first pearl jewelry brand in the world, is one of the world’s top luxury jewelry brands. Mikimoto Kōkichi, born in 1858, was a Japanese entrepreneur who is credited with creating the first cultured pearl and subsequently starting the cultured pearl industry with the establishment of his luxury pearl company Mikimoto. Natural pearls are extremely rare. In the wild, less than one in a thousand oyster shells may produce a pearl during their lifetime: hence they were a luxury only for the wealthy before the creation of cultured pearls. Kokichi Mikimoto decided to try culturing pearls that are loved by people all over the world. He became the first in the world to successfully culture a semi spherical pearl and created his company in 1893. He continued his attempt to culture many different types of pearls, including black and white South Sea cultured pearls. In 1985, Mikimoto was selected as one of Japan's top 10 inventors and was inducted into the house of peers by imperial decree and posthumously awarded the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure. In 1899, the first Mikimoto pearl shop opened in the fashionable Ginza district of Tokyo selling natural seed pearls and half round pearls. The Mikimoto business expanded internationally, opening stores in London. After World War II, Mikimoto opened stores in Paris, New York City, Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Shanghai and Bombay, and was thus one of the first Japanese brands to attain an international presence and recognition. Kokichi sent skilled craftsmen to Europe to learn the latest design techniques and styles in jewelry, including Art Deco and Art Nouveau. Using the experience and knowledge they brought back from Europe, he spent decades blending traditional Japanese craftsmanship and European manufacturing techniques to create the distinctive Mikimoto style. The man for whom Thomas Edison said "It is one of the wonders of the world that you were able to culture pearls" managed to create a new art form that lasts for more than 120 years. Too beautiful. ■

6 - Dada kitchens, a prime example of functional Italian design
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/dada-kitchens-a-prime-example-of-functional-italian-design/
Dada kitchens, a prime example of functional Italian design Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | November 7, 2020   Dada kitchens are the Italian reference brand for premium kitchens that fit the style of every home. Dada Prime kitchen is designed to express the full potential of a recessed opening. It comes in a range of different compositions designed to meet the most sophisticated aesthetic demands and it's almost too good to cook in it. The recess runs seamlessly the length and depth of the product and ends on the side panels, offering ample scope for personalization. Prime has a glass door for wall units and Flair  columns, both lit with concealed LED profiles in the sides of the units, and the new system with tapered aluminium shelves. The Prime snack bar completes this great composition. The Dada Banco kitchen redefines contrasts in materials and is offered mainly in black and white. Its solid extruded aluminium frame supports the thin line of the worktop and that defines the horizontal side of the cabinets. The whole structure remains suspended in air, and is completed by floor standing base units. The island structure supports the base units. The worktop has a minimal but elegant thickness and sets into the aluminium structure, hiding its solid interior. INDada is a kitchen with a sophisticated, modern look and finishes and materials are in complete harmony. Shapes, materials, colours and new details match in compositions to build a unique, personalised style and a design concept that is a great exercise in style. This is design that will capture your eye but with great emphasize on functionality that every kitchen needs. The Vela kitchen construction technique uses different materials, compensating the tensions and designing new proportions and distinctive technical details. The new hinged door opening mechanism allows the door to rotate in a particular way. Overlapping of subtle lines on the worktops hide the technology behind the processes. This is a highly capable kitchen hidden behind a wonderful design. A holiday for your eyes. ■

7 - Aspinal of London, the quintessential luxury bags, English style
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/aspinal-of-london-the-quintessential-luxury-bags-english-style/
Aspinal of London, the quintessential luxury bags, English style Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | October 31, 2020   From the supplier of bespoke leather accessories to museum gift shops, Aspinal of London become a luxury lifestyle brand. Their products, true to the brand's artisanal heritage, are a must for a modern women and men. Aspinal of London's Sand Pebble from the London Tote collection for ladies balances elegance with functionality. This accessory is hand crafted from Italian full grain leather in a color that's absolutely timeless. The semi structured design is accentuated by A-stitched side panels and hanging charms. The magnetic central tab flaps open to reveal a large main compartment, which holds a lightweight laptop or a tablet. Divided by a zipped section, it also features a further zipped compartment and two mobile sized slip pockets. You can carry that bag over your shoulder or in your hand. Black Pebble from the same collection has a semi-structured silhouette hand crafted from textured and supple black pebble Italian calf leather. With the capacity to store a spare pair of flat shoes, your big tablet all your daily essentials, the grosgrain lined interior is partitioned by a zipped section and has two mobile pockets and a further zipped compartment to keep your valuables organised. A magnetic dot makes your belongings safe and easily accessible. The long dual tubular carry handles provide versatile styling choice while the robust base feet ensure protective durability. For gentlemen, Aspinal of London has some good things too. Their professional Connaught Document Case in navy saffiano refreshes a timeless design with a contemporary colour palette. Its streamlined silhouette is complemented by the hand crafted Italian leather, which gives a soft and textured feel. The spacious, fabric-lined interior, large enough to accommodate a laptop, your files secure between meetings, while the small zipped compartment and two smartphone pockets ensure your essentials are always to hand. The top handles are retractable, allowing you to carry it under your arm or use as a briefcase. Small Mount Street Laptop Bag is also the perfect accessory for the discernable gentleman. This robust piece is hand crafted from Italian leather in a classic tobacco brown hue, with a tactile pebble texture. The main compartment fits a laptop, and has a padded section for a large tablet, two vertical slip pockets and a large zipped pouch. This bag features a slip compartment to the reverse with a magnetic dot fastening which doubles up as a smart sleeve to securely attach it to a suitcase. Carry it by the comfortable top handles, or wear over your shoulder using the detachable strap. ■

8 - A piece of luxury in your bathroom
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/a-piece-of-luxury-in-your-bathroom/
A piece of luxury in your bathroom Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | October 24, 2020   In order for the bathroom to become a relaxation zone, it needs to be well equipped and to look beautiful. One of  the key elements of any bathroom is a bathtub and it really can make a difference. Newton bathtub is an outstanding moment of design inspiration and an art piece for your home.  It is very unusual and definitively something you didn't see before but it is worth to take a look if you like unusual and new things. This bathtub features a curved lip style shape, a timeless detail that conveys comfort, made out of gold painted casted iron, revealing its entire golden interior. The high gloss black and gold lacquered spheres make the perfect combination to make this a sculptural and artistic piece. The Diamond Bathtub is based on geometrical shapes and it fits best where the bathroom is more modern and where owners like straightand clean lines. It features a wooden structure finished in a high gloss black varnish, a color that contrasts perfectly with the golden painted rim, covered in high gloss varnish. Besides its irregular shape inspired on its jewel’s name, it has a built in oval tub that will provide you the most comfortable soak. Darian bathtub draws inspiration from the Persian king Darius, the Persian king, and we don't know what's the parallel between them but sure enough they are both majestic. Darius features a cluster of gold plated brass asymmetrical bars enveloping a black leather structure, that results in a blend of artful and stout personality. Darius is excellent if you want a piece of a luxury in your bathroom and don't want to go to extreme as with Newton and Diamond. This piece will instantly remind you of a brilliant French apartment built for kings. Majestic 03 is a luxury Italian bathtub and when something comes from Italy you may be sure it is excellently designed. Majestic has a huge mirrored bronze base and top with steel bevelled edge. It renders exclusive reflective glass surfaces which amplify spaces and includes bevelled tops and doors, doorknobs, steel and gold feet. You have a range of finishes to choose from to you heart desire: 27 glossy glass, alligator silver and gold glass, fume and bronze mirror, 9 marbles, onyx and ceramic Base you can also choose as you want: 27 glossy glass, alligator silver and gold glass, fume and bronze mirror, and ebony. ■

9 - Use colors to bring your kitchen to another level
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/use-colors-to-bring-your-kitchen-to-another-level/
Use colors to bring your kitchen to another level Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | October 17, 2020   Who doesn’t love colors? Who doesn’t love kitchens? So, blend those two together and you'll have an easy upgrade to one of the most important rooms in your house. As a rule of thumb, if you want to make a statement and improve something to look elegant dark blue is always a good idea. Many colors work well with it and you can stick to blue itself using different hues and shades. The point is that you may use it extensively and there's almost no way to go over the top. And if you think you have too much blue in your kitchen, just add some white or some other bright color in a lighter shade and you're done. It's easy and you can do it yourself with little effort. Yellow is another color that will bring life to your old kitchen but you should use it more carefully than blue. Cabinets painted yellow will make a statement just like that and if you have a lot of them think about painting some of them yellow and some using another, more subtle color. You don't have to match all cabinets, trust your eyes and if you think you already have enough yellow just stop and think about another color for other wooden parts of your kitchen. And, as usual, when you go too far, white details or backsplash will save you. Red is another color that's great but strong. Although there are beautiful kitchen all painted in red, you may enhance you current kitchen with cleverly used red shelves. Red piece of furniture works well with almost every other color, and you can even paint random parts of storage red to get the effect you want. If you add some smaller details in red, say kitchen faucet, your kitchen will look like new and you will have a clear and obvious focal point. Some say white is boring and having an all white kitchen is a sure but boring way to go. We disagree. The point is in details that may convert a usual white kitchen into something very beautiful. Corbels, countertops and decorative elements will transform anything to beautiful if used with style. They may be in white or in some dark color, depending on use, but those small additions will make your kitchen great just like that. That can be added to an existing kitchen so there's no reason not to try them. ■

10 - Blancpain Fifty Fathoms Bathyscaphe, a timepiece for adventurers and creative minds
https://lite.poandpo.com/design-art-and-nice-stuff/blancpain-fifty-fathoms-bathyscaphe-a-timepiece-for-adventurers-and-creative-minds/
Blancpain Fifty Fathoms Bathyscaphe, a timepiece for adventurers and creative minds Martha Taylor-Brown ▼ | October 10, 2020   Blancpain presented a new version of the Fifty Fathoms Bathyscaphe Day Date watch in 500 piece limited edition. This 500 piece limited edition model was inspired by a Blancpain diver’s watch from the 1970s and it featurs a gradient coloured sandy beige dial featuring a sunburst pattern. That evokes the desert, and more specifically Death Valley in the United States, where Ernest H. Brooks II, the pioneer of underwater photography and contributor to the Edition Fifty Fathoms project, made a spectacular dive in 1962. The dive is Devils Hole, an underwater chasm that plunges into the bowels of the earth at a depth of more than 120 metres before opening out into a big underwater river. The new desert coloured Fifty Fathoms Bathyscaphe Day Date is for adventurers, enthusiasts and creative minds. In the 1970s, Blancpain broke with the traditional aesthetic codes of the Bathyscaphe models producing a series of pieces featuring a cushion shaped case, an inner rotating ring replacing the conventional outer rotating bezel, a gradient coloured grey dial as well as the day of the week and date indication. The dial of the Bathyscaphe Day Date Desert Edition adopts this style, which it combines for the first time with a subtle gradation of sandy beige, a hue that is new to the collection. Its shades and sunburst finish endow it with remarkable clarity, while its boldly sized rectangular hour markers guarantee instant readability of the information displayed. A chapter ring punctuated with Arabic numerals marks the five minute intervals while evoking the inner rotating ring of the 1970s watch. The date and day of the week windows are located at 3 o’clock. The hands are coated with Super LumiNova. The dial of the Fifty Fathoms Bathyscaphe Day Date Desert Edition is enhanced by a unidirectional rotating bezel with a brown ceramic insert and Liquidmetal hour markers. Although this new model has a vintage look, its mechanism is resolutely modern. Housed in a 43 mm satin brushed steel case and water resistant to 30 bar or 300 m, the movement offers all the performance attributes essential to a diver’s watch. It also features a five day power reserve, which is particularly useful in daily life. Another major asset is its balance fitted with a silicon balance spring, a guarantee of accuracy and resistance to magnetic fields. For something over 12,000 euros this is a watch for life. ■

15 - https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun

1 - Microsoft Surface Laptop Go is very small and powerful
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/microsoft-surface-laptop-go-is-very-small-and-powerful/
Microsoft Surface Laptop Go is very small and powerful Dale Davies ▼ | December 18, 2020   Microsoft Surface Laptop Go has an excellent 12.4 inch display 3:2 aspect ratio PixelSense touchscreen and a slim body. The cheapest version of the Surface Laptop Go since fatures 64GB of eMMC storage and 4GB of RAM. However, step up the range and you got a nice powerful device with more memory and increadible low weight. Surface Laptop Go really is just like a Surface Laptop 3. With a wedge shaped profile, the Surface Laptop 3’s lid and keyboard are clad in aluminium with a smooth matte finish and mirrored Windows logo in the centre. The only difference is that, instead of more aluminium, the base of the laptop is finished in a plastic. Microsoft Surface Laptop Go smart, neat and feels sturdy design enough to take the knocks of everyday abuse. It’s light and slim, too. If portability is key, it’s a very good choice: weighing 1.1kg and measuring 278 x 206 x 15.7mm when closed, you can sling it in your laptop bag. The 12.4 incd display feels comfortably large enough to work on all day. That’s mainly down to its 3:2 aspect ratio, which lends the display a more spacious feel than 16:9 displays with the same diagonal measurements. The keyboard is a delight to type on, there’s enough feedback for frustration free touch typing and there aren’t any major issues with the layout. There’s a fingerprint reader embedded in the power button at the top right, just to the left of the Del key, which works well. Microsoft omits this from the cheapest model. You also get a 720p webcam set into the bezel above the screen. It’s not a bad webcam but it isn’t the best I’ve used, either, and not a patch on the one you get on the Surface Go tablet. The touchpad works without issue, though, and around the edges of the laptop is a sensible selection of ports. On the left edge is a full-sized Type A USB port, a USB port up to 10Gbits/sec and a headset jack. On the right edge, a magnetic Surface Connect port lets you hook up your charger. The resolution is 1,536 x 1,024 (148ppi) and it goes bright enough to be readable in bright conditions. Its presentation of colours is impressive, too. The laptop’s under-keyboard speakers kicking out sound at surprisingly decent volume. ■

2 - McIntosh MA12000 amplifier, 17 inputs, 350W
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/mcintosh-ma12000-amplifier-17-inputs-350w/
McIntosh MA12000 amplifier, 17 inputs, 350W Dale Davies ▼ | December 11, 2020   The fully loaded, McIntosh hybrid MA12000 Integrated Amplifier is a product of expert craftsmanship. McIntosh most powerful integrated amplifier ever, the feature rich MA12000 offers 350 Watts per channel of clean, high performance power that produces a breathtaking home audio experience. You will think your favorite musicians are playing a live, in person performance in your house. The MA12000 gives you the best of all worlds with the warm nuances of a vacuum tube preamplifier or valve preamplifier as some like to say combined with the speed and raw power of a solid state amplifier, state of the art digital audio capabilities, and enough analog audio connections for virtually any home music system. The MA12000 is a hybrid design with the preamplifier section powered by 4 12AX7A vacuum tubes 2 tubes per audio channel, while the 350 Watt power amplifier section employs a solid state design. McIntosh Autoformer technology guarantees your speakers will always be capable of receiving that full 350 Watts whether they have 2, 4 or 8 Ohm impedance. There are 10 analog inputs on the MA12000 consisting of 2 balanced and 6 unbalanced inputs, plus 1 Moving Coil and 1 Moving Magnet input for connecting a turntable. Both phono inputs feature adjustable loading for fine tuning the MA12000 to your specific turntable configuration so your vinyl collection sounds just right. All the unbalanced analog connectors are constructed from premium gold plated solid brass for superior signal handling and grounding. The MA12000 also has 1 balanced and 1 unbalanced output if you ever want to connect to an additional amplifier that's used in a different part of your residence. For digital music, the MA12000 comes with our DA2 Digital Audio Module factory installed. Located in the DA2 are 7 digital audio inputs: 2 coaxial, 2 optical, 1 USB and 1 MCT (for use with our MCT series of SACD/CD Transports), and 1 audio only HDMI Audio Return Channel (ARC)1 connection. The DA2 is powered by a next generation, Quad Balanced, 8 channel, 32 bit Digital to Analog Converter (DAC). The HDMI (ARC) input allows TVs with a compatible HDMI (ARC) output to be connected to the MA12000 and your home stereo system to bring a new level of audio performance to your TV and movie watching that TV speakers or soundbars just can't provide. ■

3 - Beyerdynamic headphones, your reference sound. Everywhere
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/beyerdynamic-headphones-your-reference-sound-everywhere/
Beyerdynamic headphones, your reference sound. Everywhere Dale Davies ▼ | December 4, 2020   For decades professional users have placed their trust in beyerdynamic studio headphones. Tesla studio reference headphones DT 1990 PRO are for mixing and mastering open circumaural headphones for high end use. Power and precision are critical requirements when it comes to sound reproduction. The efficiency of  latest Tesla driver technology is characterised emphatically by high resolution and high output power. Brilliant highs, a richly detailed midrange and precise bass combine to ensure a sublime sound quality that is second to none. Together with the open back design, the high resolution Tesla drivers of the beyerdynamic DT 1990 headphones ensure a wide, dynamic and extremely natural stereo image. Titanium coated acoustic fabric and carefully selected precision woven textiles round off the balanced sound quality of these dynamic studio headphones. The open, circumaural design offers a natural and extremely spatial sound. The DT 1990 PRO Tesla headphones' optimized spatial sound reproduction makes them a reliable reference for mixing and mastering applications. The perfected design of the DT 1990 PRO combines innovation with decades of expertise in headphone technology. High tech textiles and ear pads make the headphones exceptionally comfortable. They are so comfortable you will almost forget you are wearing them. The DT 1990 PRO are handcrafted in Germany.  From the smart headband through to the aluminium end pieces, the new professional headphones are real head turners due to their exceptionally meticulous craftsmanship with a real focus on quality and durability. The tesla acoustic transducer is uncomplicated in design. Only a small number of components have to be assembled, thus resulting in minimum tolerances. The construction consistently follows the laws of physics. The multilayer sandwich membrane material combines high rigidity and low weight, delivering advantages such as ultra deep bass and crystal clear highs. The strong tesla magnetic field is located within the acoustic transducer (concentrated in the air gap). The external scattered magnetic field is extremely small in order to minimise losses. ■

4 - There is nothing like Copland CTA 408 amplifier
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/there-is-nothing-like-copland-cta-408-amplifier/
There is nothing like Copland CTA 408 amplifier Dale Davis ▼ | November 27, 2020   There is nothing like an excellent tube amplifier. An amplifier that simultaneously offer a midrange that is open and clear, highs with an unconstrained mobility and acceleration, and a deep, tight and free flowing bass reproduction. The CTA408 Integrated Amplifier is intended for those who prefer the ease of a single chassis amplification, still wanting the performance of separates. It offers such amenities as separate MC and MM phono inputs, Monitoring in outputs, Headphone amplifier and a startup procedure that vastly prolongs the tube life. During the last decades, advances in technology has offered new possibilities for circuit optimization, using components and technology mainly unavailable for the previous designers of tube amplifiers. Inside the CTA408 is one of the most carefully conceived tube amplification engines available. Driver stage tubes supported by MOSFET circuitry. Numerous individual power supplies, designed to operate with constant power, thereby isolating power stage fluctuations from entering the input stages and eliminating reverse modulation towards the AC supply grid. Dedicated Class A headphone amplifier, excellent J FET  Phono amplifier, active RIAA equalization employing more than one hundred discrete components inside a noise shielding box of its own, The output transformers are Copland in house design, fine tuned for optimal power bandwidth, and the massive core size of the transformers prevents core saturation, and they are able to transfer full power well below 20Hz to the loudspeakers with a minimum of phase shift, are just some of the most interestin features. The amplifier uses the latest variant of the legendary 6550/KT88 power valves and in the CTA408, they surely demonstrate that the everlasting sound qualities of tubes can be extended into regions nowadays dominated by solid stage designs. The huge power tubes are very pleasing to look and therefore, we have decided to make them visible behind lateral perforations on the front panel, thus creating a stunning design to match the sonic virtues of this amplifier. ■

5 - Enjoy premiere with Samsung's huge Premiere screen
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/enjoy-premiere-with-samsungs-huge-premiere-screen/
Enjoy premiere with Samsung's huge Premiere screen Dale Davies ▼ | November 20, 2020   The Premiere is Samsung’s latest solution for those seeking the ultimate in in home cinema experiences. As The Premiere is entirely white, it is able to fit in smoothly with any interior design aesthetic. Furthermore, its rounded edge is accentuated with a Kvadrat fabric finish to evoke cozy and modern simplicity. When you think of installing projectors, the first thing that might come to your mind is a myriad of cables, fixtures and other components. However, The Premiere’s installation is as simple as plugging in its power cable and connecting it to a wireless network, meaning that even the least tech savvy of users can set up the projector with ease and start using it quickly and seamlessly. What makes this easy installation possible is the way in which The Premiere has been designed to project. Compared to conventional projectors which require up to 3 or 4m of distance from the wall in order to provide big screen projections, The Premiere is an ultra short throw projector capable of creating a screen size of 2.5 meters when placed between close to the wall. The Premiere necessitates just some simple organization to accommodate its easy installation. Furthermore, The Premiere possesses a compact size that means users can easily install and rearrange the projector on their own. The Premiere is available in two models a Triple Laser enabled model (LSP9T) and a Single Laser enabled model (LSP7T). The Premiere elevates the color display of its projection to 147% of the DCI P32 color gamut capable of bringing a sunset shot, for example, to life. Users can enjoy truly authentic renderings of the unique colors and vibrant tones of all their favorite iconic scenic shots. In order to allow users to enjoy the screen during daytime conditions, The Premiere features high brightness and contrast ratio levels. The projector tops out at 2,800 ANSI lumens of brightness, the equivalent brightness of 2,800 candles. On top of that, as The Premiere’s 2,000,000:1 contrast range delivers all the most subtle contrast differences, users can enjoy a cinema like experience wherever they want. The Triple Laser enabled model allows you to enjoy a screen of up over three meters in size when the projector is placed 23.8cm away from the wall. Regardless of where a user is seated, the 4K screen is capable of showcasing content in all its glory at any angle, meaning that friends and family alike can benefit from the experience. ■

6 - MacBook Air sports M1 chip and 18 hours of playback
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/macbook-air-sports-m1-chip-and-18-hours-of-playback/
MacBook Air sports M1 chip and 18 hours of playback Dale Davies ▼ | November 13, 2020   With the M1 chip, MacBook Air speeds through everything from editing family photos to exporting videos for the web. The powerful 8 core CPU performs up to 3.5x faster than the previous generation. With up to an 8 core GPU, graphics are up to 5x faster, the biggest leap ever for MacBook Air, so immersive, graphics intensive games run at significantly higher frame rates. ML workloads are up to 9x faster, so apps that use ML based features like face recognition or object detection can do so in a fraction of the time. The M1 chip’s storage controller and latest flash technology deliver up to 2x faster SSD performance, so previewing massive images or importing large files is faster than ever. And in MacBook Air, M1 is faster than the chips in 98 percent of PC laptops sold in the past year. With the efficiency of M1, MacBook Air also delivers this performance in a fanless design, which means no matter what users are doing, it remains completely silent. And the new MacBook Air features extraordinary battery life, with up to 15 hours of wireless web browsing and up to 18 hours of video playback the longest battery life ever on a MacBook Air. Other new features in MacBook Air include Apple’s latest image signal processor (ISP) in the M1 chip, which improves camera image quality with better noise reduction, greater dynamic range, and improved auto white balance and ML enhanced face detection so users look their best during video calls. Support for P3 wide color results in an even more vibrant, true to life Retina display. The Secure Enclave in M1, combined with Big Sur, delivers best in class security with features like Touch ID, which makes it easy to unlock MacBook Air and make secure online purchases using Apple Pay with the touch of a finger. And new Wi Fi delivers faster wireless performance, while two Thunderbolt ports with USB support allow for connectivity to a wide range of peripherals. When compared to the previous generation, the M1 powered MacBook Air can: export a project for the web with iMovie up to 3x faster, integrate 3D effects into video in Final Cut Pro up to 5x faster, for the first time, play back and edit multiple streams of full quality, 4K ProRes video in Final Cut Pro without dropping a frame, export photos from Lightroom up to twice as fast, extend FaceTime and other video calls for up to twice as long on a single charge. ■

7 - Stunning Fyne Audio F704 amplifier, British audio for best ears
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/stunning-fyne-audio-f704-amplifier-british-audio-for-best-ears/
Stunning Fyne Audio F704 amplifier, British audio for best ears Dale Davies ▼ | November 6, 2020   Built in the UK, Fyne Audio F704 features the best of Fyne Audio’s new technologies and expertise distilled into a contemporary floorstanding speaker. Using trickle down technology from the F1 Series, it blends a 300mm IsoFlare point source driver and 300mm multi-fibre bass driver into a twin cavity tuned cabinet with a BassTrax LF diffuser integrated into the down firing port. Available in luxury high gloss piano lacquer applied to black, white or walnut veneers, the flagship of the series delivers stunning dynamics for a truly captivating Hi-Fi experience. The F700 Series’ hand crafted cabinets have a uniquely sculpted shape designed to appeal to both the ear and the eye. The curve of each panel is precisely calculated to diffuse standing waves, allowing the finest musical details to shine through, while extensive internal bracing reinforces the sonic neutrality of the enclosure. Formed from high density birch plywood, chosen for its extremely low sonic colouration, the cabinet construction features a complex, twin cavity tuning system. The F700 Series crossover is the result of sourcing the very best audio components from around the world and Fyne’s extensive experience in network design. The result is a crossover of incredible neutrality, combining low loss inductors, Claritycap high grade capacitors and Van den Hul high purity silver plated internal wiring to create the cleanest signal path possible. Every F700 Series crossover is Deep Cryogenically Treated. This super-freezing and slow thawing process relieves microstress in components, wiring and solder joints, maximising signal transfer and delivering greater transparency to the sound. The bi-wired terminal panel uses gold plated link cables and premium quality gold plated binding posts. A fifth terminal is provided for grounding, further preventing radio frequency interference from masking fine detail. Fyne Audio’s flagship BassTrax Tractrix diffuser bass porting system is integrated into all F700 models. The result is unrivalled bass integration in any room, offering the depth and scale of a large, ported cabinet loudspeaker without the potential bass bloom caused by typical port/room interactions. The clever design makes F700 Series far less sensitive of room position than traditional Hi-Fi loudspeakers, enabling easy in room placement for aesthetic or practical reasons. ■

8 - Vertere RG-1 Reference Groove, a turntable for all experiences
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/vertere-rg1-reference-groove-a-turntable-for-all-experiences/
Vertere RG-1 Reference Groove, a turntable for all experiences Dale Davies ▼ | October 30, 2020   Record Player RG-1 Reference Groove embodies all Vertere’s expertise in quality audio. Designed without compromise, every single component in the RG-1 is specially engineered and custom built, using the best possible materials and the highest standards of precision. Vertere RG‐1 record player utilises probably the highest precision bearing assembly designed for a record player. As a result the drive system can rotate the platter assembly absolutely smoothly and silently. Thus the record is presented to the tonearm and cartridge without any unwanted bearing noise. One look at the record player motor assembly and the depth and innovativeness of its design become apparent. Using precision bearings to articulate the proprietary aluminium alloy motor housing keeps the motor continuously synchronous achieving constant belt tension. Simply put, it drives the platter at constant speed without interference. RG-1 platter assembly is a unique two piece super precision machined aluminium alloy design that provides friction-only damping of the platter assembly. The main platter has a critically designed surface profile on its top side that perfectly matches the underside of the reference platter insert. The two parts fit so precisely that the assembly creates a linearly damped, non‐resonant structure. The underside of the main platter is precision machined to provide a perfect fit to the main spindle block for accurate turning. It also has highest peripheral mass to maximise inertia to weight ratio. This ensures constant speed while eliminating undue pressure on the main bearing contact point. Maximum performance, maximum longevity. RG-1 Reference Motor Drive with its most advanced control circuit design, implemented to its limits, allows us to achieve maximum performance from our world renowned RG-1 Reference Record Player  and  Reference Tonearm. RG-1 Motor Drive takes full control of the record player motor and provides the smoothest drive with minimum noise and distortion. The music that is extracted from the vinyl unbelievably resembles the original master that the record was cut from. Closest to the original master. ■

9 - Audiolab 8300MB, pocket powerhouse housing 250W of pure amplification
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/audiolab-8300mb-pocket-powerhouse-housing-250w-of-pure-amplification/
Audiolab 8300MB, pocket powerhouse housing 250W of pure amplification Dale Davies ▼ | October 23, 2020   Audiolab 8300MB is a pocket powerhouse, housing 250W of pure, balanced amplification. 8300MB’s full power output is delivered into any loudspeaker load. iMassive reserves of power are available for high current drive capability to power and control the mightiest of speakers. This latest development of the audiolab range now features a fully balanced power stage making the most of the balanced XLR inputs. This makes 8300MB a perfect match for the M-DAC using its balanced outputs, even over long cables. The 8300MB is quite possibly the perfect example of audiolab’s goal to effortlessly reproduce music with exquisite detail. Not only is 8300MB an extremely powerful amplifier, offering 250W of pure power with high current drive capability, but it also features a fully balanced power stage. Internally the 8300MB is arranged as two complete power amplifiers which are bridge coupled to the loudspeaker terminals. Each power amplification stage is fed from one of the terminals of the balanced input, therefore the 8300MB operates as a fully balanced amplifier right through to the speaker output. The benefits are a high level of noise rejection and lower transient distortion plus the ability of the amplifier to draw maximum current from the power supply as required to follow the musical waveform accurately. It all adds up to a startlingly vivid and highly impactful musical performance that will put more energy into your loudspeakers as well as control them like never before. Some impressive tech specs just to complete the picture: Gain	29dB, Total Harmonic Distortion (THD) 0.00%, Signal to Noise Ratio 110dB, Rated Power Output 250W RMS, Net weight 9.5kg. Formed in the early 1980s by Philip Swift and Derek Scotland, audiolab earned worldwide acclaim with the 8000A an integrated stereo amplifier that became a classic ‘step-up’ from the budget models of the time. During the ensuing years, the 8000A established itself as one of the most successful British amps ever produced, and was joined by a range of lectronics including CD players, pre power amps and an FM tuner. ■

10 - iPhone 12 Pro, the best of the best
https://lite.poandpo.com/small-devices-for-fun/iphone-12-pro-the-best-of-the-best/
iPhone 12 Pro, the best of the best Dale Davies ▼ | October 16, 2020   Apple announced iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max, introducing a 5G experience and advanced technologies. iPhone 12 Pro models feature a new design and edge to edge Super Retina XDR displays, the largest ever on iPhone, protected by the all new Ceramic Shield front cover, which provides the biggest jump in durability ever on iPhone. The Apple designed A14 Bionic chip, the fastest chip in a smartphone, powers impressive computational photography features including the all new Apple ProRAW for more creative control in photos, and enables the first end to end Dolby Vision video experience, up to 60 fps. The reimagined pro camera systems include an expansive Ultra Wide camera, a Telephoto camera with an even longer focal length on iPhone 12 Pro Max, and new Wide cameras to capture beautiful professional quality images and video in bright and low light environments. iPhone 12 Pro models also introduce a new LiDAR Scanner for immersive augmented reality (AR) experiences and MagSafe, which offers high powered wireless charging and an all new ecosystem of accessories that easily attach to iPhone. Featuring the most 5G bands on any smartphone, iPhone 12 Pro models offer the broadest 5G coverage worldwide.1 Models in the US support millimeter wave, the higher frequency version of 5G, allowing iPhone 12 Pro models to reach speeds up to 4Gbps, even in densely populated areas. iPhone 12 Pro models also feature Smart Data mode, which extends battery life by intelligently assessing 5G needs and balancing data usage, speed, and power in real time. Generations ahead of the competition, A14 Bionic is the first chip built on 5 nanometer process. Faster and more efficient than ever, A14 Bionic has the fastest CPU and GPU by up to 50 percent compared to the fastest competing smartphone chips, enabling console quality gaming experiences, powerful computational photography, and more, while delivering great battery life. Pushing the limits of machine learning (ML), A14 Bionic features a 16 core Neural Engine — for an 80 percent increase in performance that is capable of completing 11 trillion operations per second, enabling improved performance on even the most intense ML models. ■

16 - https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health

1 - Russia's EpiVacCorona vaccine has 100% efficacy, says report
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/russias-epivaccorona-vaccine-has-100-efficacy-says-report/
Russia's EpiVacCorona vaccine has 100% efficacy, says report Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The immunological efficacy of the Russia-developed coronavirus vaccine EpiVacCorona is 100 per cent, Sputnik News quoted the Federal Service for Surveillance on Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-Being as saying. EpiVacCorona is a coronavirus vaccine developed by the Vektor State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology in Russia. The mass trials of EpiVacCorona has begun in Russia in November. The peptide-based vaccine is the second to be licensed for use in Russia. Moscow has said its other approved Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, is 92 per cent effective at protecting people from Covid-19 according to interim results. ■

2 - Germany reports new COVID-19 variant, extended lockdown possible
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/germany-reports-new-covid19-variant-extended-lockdown-possible/
Germany reports new COVID-19 variant, extended lockdown possible Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   Another COVID-19 variant has been reported, this time in Germany. According to local media, it was identified Monday at a hospital in the Bavarian town of Garmisch-Partenkirchen. An official at the hospital said the variant's genome is still being sequenced, and so it's not been established whether the new variant has any clinical relevance. The German government is considering the extension of the country's lockdown into February following the detection of new variants of COVID-19 and persistently high numbers of infections. "We still have a big risk... that is the risk of mutation," Steffen Seibert, Angela Merkel's Spokesman, said at a news conference, revealing that the chancellor had brought forward a meeting with the leaders of Germany's 16 states to Tuesday, RT reported. The current lockdown is due to expire at the end of January, but Vice Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Monday that he "assumed" that the country would prolong the current restrictions for another 14 days until mid-February. He also added that the imposition of curfews is a "possible measure" for which the government may opt, in a similar move to France, where from today curfews have come into place for the entire country between 6 pm and 6 am. ■

3 - Norway finds no direct link between elderly deaths and vaccine
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/norway-finds-no-direct-link-between-elderly-deaths-and-vaccine/
Norway finds no direct link between elderly deaths and vaccine Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Health authorities in Norway say there’s no evidence of a direct link between the recent string of deaths among elderly people inoculated against COVID-19, and the vaccine they received. The Norwegian Medicines Agency is seeking to address fears that taking the vaccine might be too risky, after 33 people in the country aged 75 and over died following immunization, according to the agency’s latest figures. All were already seriously ill, it said. “Clearly, Covid-19 is far more dangerous to most patients than vaccination,” Steinar Madsen, medical director at the Norwegian Medicines Agency, said by phone to Bloomberg on Monday. “We are not alarmed.” ■

4 - Brazil approves emergency use of Chinese Sinovac, AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/brazil-approves-emergency-use-of-chinese-sinovac-astrazeneca-covid19-vaccines/
Brazil approves emergency use of Chinese Sinovac, AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Brazil's Health Regulatory Agency (Anvisa) unanimously approved on Sunday the emergency use of the CoronaVac vaccine, from the Chinese laboratory Sinovac, as well as the AstraZeneca-University of Oxford vaccine against COVID-19. Brazil will begin mass vaccination against COVID-19 starting Wednesday, its health ministry announced Sunday. The Brazilian government will begin to distribute vaccines throughout the country starting early Monday morning, Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello told a press conference. The vaccines will be delivered by the Brazilian Air Force "to strategic points" in each state, and on Wednesday, vaccination will begin throughout the country. The first vaccine to be distributed in Brazil was CoronaVac, developed by Sinovac in conjunction with the Butantan Institute of Sao Paulo, and the first doses were given to health professionals in Sao Paulo moments after the approval. The Brazilian government has procured 6 million doses of the CoronaVac vaccine to be distributed throughout the country. Despite the vaccine program, the minister urged the population "not to relax in preventive measures." Brazil has so far registered almost 8.5 million COVID-19 cases, and nearly 210,000 deaths. ■

5 - Mass COVID vaccination campaign begins in Russia, open for talks with all who need vaccine
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/mass-covid-vaccination-campaign-begins-in-russia-open-for-talks-with-all-who-need-vaccine/
Mass COVID vaccination campaign begins in Russia, open for talks with all who need vaccine Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   A mass coronavirus vaccination campaign begins in Russia on Monday. Russians willing to be vaccinated can choose between two vaccines, Sputnik V and EpiVacCorona, TASS reports. Russian President Vladimir Putin on January 13 handed down instructions to move from large-scale vaccination of at-risk groups to mass vaccination. Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said that about 2.1 mln coronavirus vaccine doses would be released for civil distribution before the end of January. Head of the Federal Service for Surveillance on Consumer Rights Protection and Human Wellbeing Anna Popova emphasized the need to carry out a vaccination campaign in a way to make sure that herd immunity formed before the fall season. According to her, 60% of the country’s population needs to be vaccinated this year. Two coronavirus vaccines have been registered in Russia so far. The Sputnik V vaccine was developed by the Gamaleya Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and EpiVacCorona was created by the Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology Vector. A vaccine made by the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of Immune-and-Biological Products is going through clinical trials. Russia was the world’s first to develop an anti-coronavirus vaccine and is ready for cooperation will all countries needing it, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Sunday. "Russia was the first in the world to develop the vaccine. What did it say immediately after that? That it is open for cooperation on the legal basis. Our country has begun to cooperate with partners - both countries and international organization - to ensure that the world has a chance for vaccination," she said in an interview with the Voskresny Vecher (Sunday Evening) with Vladimir Solovyov program on the Rossiya-1 television channel. ■

6 - Los Angeles first county in U.S. to surpass 1 million COVID-19 cases
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/los-angeles-first-county-in-us-to-surpass-1-million-covid19-cases/
Los Angeles first county in U.S. to surpass 1 million COVID-19 cases Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 17, 2021   Los Angeles became the first county in the United States to surpass 1 million total cases since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, local health officials said Saturday. The most populous county in the country, home to 10 million residents, on Saturday reported 14,669 new confirmed cases and 253 additional deaths, pushing its cumulative cases up to 1,003,923 with 13,741 related deaths, according to the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health. There are 7,597 COVID-19 patients currently hospitalized in the county with 22 percent of them in intensive care, said the department in a daily release. Local health officials also confirmed the first case of the new coronavirus strain, which was first discovered in the United Kingdom. The individual found to have contracted the virus is a male, who recently spent time in L.A. County but has traveled to Oregon, where he is currently in quarantine. The more contagious variant has been previously detected in Southern California's San Diego and San Bernardino. "Presence of the U.K. variant in Los Angeles County means virus transmission can happen more easily and residents must more diligently follow the safety measures put in place to prevent additional cases, hospitalizations, and deaths," officials noted in the release. Los Angeles County's Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer warned the presence of the U.K. variant in Los Angeles is troubling, as the county's healthcare system is already severely strained with more than 7,500 people currently hospitalized. "Our community is bearing the brunt of the winter surge, experiencing huge numbers of cases, hospitalizations and deaths, five times what we experienced over the summer. This more contagious variant makes it easier for infections to spread at worksites, at stores, and in our homes," she added. ■

7 - Norwegian authorities concerned about Pfizer vaccine after 29 die, Australia seeking answers
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/norwegian-authorities-concerned-about-pfizer-vaccine-after-29-die-australia-seeking-answers/
Norwegian authorities concerned about Pfizer vaccine after 29 die, Australia seeking answers Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 17, 2021   Norway has expressed its concern about the safety of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for elderly people with underlying health conditions, after the death of 29 people. 42,000 people have received the first shot of the vaccine in the country so far, with Norway focusing on groups deemed as the most at-risk of contracting the virus, including senior citizens. As such, the Norwegian Medicines Agency has suggested that COVID-19 vaccines might have too much risk for the elderly and terminally ill, according to a press release. "23 deaths associated with covid-19 vaccination of which 13 have been assessed. Common adverse reactions may have contributed to a severe course in elderly people who are frail," the agency said but the reports are there are now 29 deaths. "The reports suggest that common adverse reactions to mRNA vaccines, such as fever and nausea, may have contributed to a fatal outcome in some frail patients, says Sigurd Hortemo, chief physician at the Norwegian Medicines Agency "The large studies on Comirnaty (BioNTec/Pfizer) did not include patients with unstable or acute illness - and included few participants over 85 years of age. In Norway we are now vaccinating the elderly and people in nursing homes with serious underlying diseases, therefore it is expected that deaths close to the time vaccination may occur. In Norway, an average of 400 people die each week in nursing homes and long-term care facilities. "All deaths that occur within the first few days of vaccination are carefully assessed. We cannot rule out that adverse reactions to the vaccine occurring within the first days following vaccination (such as fever and nausea) may contribute to more serious course and fatal outcome in patients with severe underlying disease." Australian authorities are seeking more information about one of the COVID-19 vaccines set to be used locally, following a warning from officials in Norway. Australia has ordered 10 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt said he had "immediately sought" more details. "I have been in contact with the Australian medical regulator, the [Therapeutic Goods Administration] TGA, this morning and requested that they seek additional information, both from the company, but also from the Norwegian medical regulator," he said. "[Foreign Minister] Marise Payne will task [the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade] DFAT to seek advice directly from the Norwegian Government. ■

8 - Pakistan approves AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine for emergency use
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/pakistan-approves-astrazeneca-coronavirus-vaccine-for-emergency-use/
Pakistan approves AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine for emergency use Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 17, 2021   AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine has been approved for emergency use in Pakistan, the health minister said on Saturday, making it the first coronavirus vaccine to get the green light for use in Pakistan. Pakistan, which is seeing rising numbers of coronavirus infections, said its vaccines would be procured from multiple sources. “DRAP granted emergency use authorisation to AstraZeneca’s COVID vaccine,” the health minister, Faisal Sultan, told Reuters. Approval has been given to get more than a million doses of Sinopharm’s vaccine from China, he said. “We are in the process to obtain Western origin and other vaccines both via bilateral purchase agreements as well as via the COVAX facility,” he said. The Chinese vaccine is awaiting approval from the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), which has received and reviewed its data. Pakistan is speaking to a number of vaccine makers, and Sultan said the country could get “in the range of tens of millions” of vaccine doses under an agreement with China’s CanSinoBio. The vaccine company’s Ad5-nCoV COVID-19 candidate is nearing completion of Phase III clinical trials in Pakistan. Efficacy is a key factor, said Sultan. “We have and are watching the evolving stories around efficacy of a number of vaccines.” ■

9 - Norwegian health authorities: Deaths among elderly likely related to vaccine
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/norwegian-health-authorities-deaths-among-elderly-likely-related-to-vaccine/
Norwegian health authorities: Deaths among elderly likely related to vaccine Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 16, 2021   An adverse reaction to the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine may be responsible for as many as 23 reported deaths among frail and elderly patients in nursing homes in Norway, said a press release from the Norwegian Medicines Agency (NoMA) on Friday. The studies on Comirnaty (Pfizer-BioNTech) included few participants aged over 85 and did not include patients with unstable or acute illness, according to NoMA. "The assessment suggests that common adverse reactions to mRNA vaccines, such as fever and nausea, may have contributed to a fatal outcome in some frail patients," said Sigurd Hortemo, NoMA's chief physician. Reports of suspected adverse reactions including death are received on a daily basis and are continuously assessed by both the Norwegian Medicines Agency and the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH), said the press release. As a result of 13 autopsies of the deceased undertaken for the assessment, the NIPH has updated the COVID-19 vaccination guidelines, providing more detailed advice on the vaccination of the elderly who are frail. "For those with the most serious frailty, however, even relatively mild vaccine side effects can have serious consequences. For those who have a very short remaining life span anyway, the benefit of the vaccine can be marginal or irrelevant," said the updated NIPH guidelines. "In Norwegian nursing homes, about 400 people die a week. All deaths that occur in time in connection with the vaccination are carefully assessed, and there is no indication that the vaccine causes deaths," said Steinar Madsen, medical director of the NoMA. "Doctors must now carefully consider who should be vaccinated. Those who are very frail and at the very end of life can be vaccinated after an individual assessment," Madsen added. More than 25,000 Norwegians have been vaccinated against COVID-19 since Dec. 27, 2020. ■

10 - Scientists think vaccines will work on Brazil COVID variant
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-sickness-and-health/scientists-think-vaccines-will-work-on-brazil-covid-variant/
Scientists think vaccines will work on Brazil COVID variant Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 15, 2021   Britain’s transport minister Grant Shapps said scientists think that COVID-19 vaccines will work on a new variant of the coronavirus found in Brazil. A decision to ban flights from South America and Portugal was made over concerns it spreads faster. “We had a look at this particular mutation, as opposed to many other thousands very carefully, saw there may be an issue, not so much that the vaccine won’t work, in fact scientists think it will work, but just the fact it is more spreadable,” Grant Shapps told the BBC. ■

17 - https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime

1 - A planet like no other
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/a-planet-like-no-other/
A planet like no other Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 19, 2021   The core mass of the giant exoplanet WASP-107b is much lower than what was thought necessary to build up the immense gas envelope surrounding giant planets like Jupiter and Saturn, astronomers at Université de Montréal have found. This intriguing discovery by Ph.D. student Caroline Piaulet of UdeM's Institute for Research on Exoplanets (iREx) suggests that gas-giant planets form a lot more easily than previously believed. Piaulet is part of the groundbreaking research team of UdeM astrophysics professor Björn Benneke that in 2019 announced the first detection of water on an exoplanet located in its star's habitable zone. Published today in the Astronomical Journal with colleagues in Canada, the U.S., Germany and Japan, the new analysis of WASP-107b's internal structure "has big implications," said Benneke. "This work addresses the very foundations of how giant planets can form and grow," he said. "It provides concrete proof that massive accretion of a gas envelope can be triggered for cores that are much less massive than previously thought." WASP-107b was first detected in 2017 around WASP-107, a star about 212 light years from Earth in the Virgo constellation. The planet is very close to its star—over 16 times closer than the Earth is to the Sun. As big as Jupiter but 10 times lighter, WASP-107b is one of the least dense exoplanets known: a type that astrophysicists have dubbed "super-puff" or "cotton-candy" planets. Piaulet and her team first used observations of WASP-107b obtained at the Keck Observatory in Hawai'i to assess its mass more accurately. They used the radial velocity method, which allows scientists to determine a planet's mass by observing the wobbling motion of its host star due to the planet's gravitational pull. They concluded that the mass of WASP-107b is about one tenth that of Jupiter, or about 30 times that of Earth. The team then did an analysis to determine the planet's most likely internal structure. They came to a surprising conclusion: with such a low density, the planet must have a solid core of no more than four times the mass of the Earth. This means that more than 85 percent of its mass is included in the thick layer of gas that surrounds this core. By comparison, Neptune, which has a similar mass to WASP-107b, only has 5 to 15 percent of its total mass in its gas layer. "We had a lot of questions about WASP-107b," said Piaulet. "How could a planet of such low density form? And how did it keep its huge layer of gas from escaping, especially given the planet's close proximity to its star? "This motivated us to do a thorough analysis to determine its formation history." Planets form in the disc of dust and gas that surrounds a young star called a protoplanetary disc. Classical models of gas-giant planet formation are based on Jupiter and Saturn. In these, a solid core at least 10 times more massive than the Earth is needed to accumulate a large amount of gas before the disc dissipates. Without a massive core, gas-giant planets were not thought able to cross the critical threshold necessary to build up and retain their large gas envelopes. How then do explain the existence of WASP-107b, which has a much less massive core? McGill University professor and iREx member Eve Lee, a world-renowned expert on super-puff planets like WASP-107b, has several hypotheses. "For WASP-107b, the most plausible scenario is that the planet formed far away from the star, where the gas in the disc is cold enough that gas accretion can occur very quickly," she said. "The planet was later able to migrate to its current position, either through interactions with the disc or with other planets in the system." The Keck observations of the WASP-107 system cover a much longer period of time than previous studies have, allowing the UdeM-led research team to make an additional discovery: the existence of a second planet, WASP-107c, with a mass of about one-third that of Jupiter, considerably more than WASP-107b's. WASP-107c is also much farther from the central star; it takes three years to complete one orbit around it, compared to only 5.7 days for WASP-107b. Also interesting: the eccentricity of this second planet is high, meaning its trajectory around its star is more oval than circular. "WASP-107c has in some respects kept the memory of what happened in its system," said Piaulet. "Its great eccentricity hints at a rather chaotic past, with interactions between the planets which could have led to significant displacements, like the one suspected for WASP-107b." Beyond its formation history, there are still many mysteries surrounding WASP-107b. Studies of the planet's atmosphere with the Hubble Space Telescope published in 2018 revealed one surprise: it contains very little methane. "That's strange, because for this type of planet, methane should be abundant," said Piaulet. "We're now reanalysing Hubble's observations with the new mass of the planet to see how it will affect the results, and to examine what mechanisms might explain the destruction of methane." The young researcher plans to continue studying WASP-107b, hopefully with the James Webb Space Telescope set to launch in 2021, which will provide a much more precise idea of the composition of the planet's atmosphere. "Exoplanets like WASP-107b that have no analogue in our Solar System allow us to better understand the mechanisms of planet formation in general and the resulting variety of exoplanets," she said. "It motivates us to study them in great detail." "WASP-107b's density is even lower: a case study for the physics of gas envelope accretion and orbital migration," by Caroline Piaulet et al., was posted today in the Astronomical Journal. ■

2 - Bangladesh to build first space observatory center
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/bangladesh-to-build-first-space-observatory-center/
Bangladesh to build first space observatory center Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   In a first, Bangladesh plans setting up a space observatory center as part of the birth centenary celebrations of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, the country's founder, officials said on Sunday. A proposal has been sent for approval to the National Economic Council, the apex body which approves government projects, Md. Abdul Momin, a joint secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technology, told Anadolu Agency. Earlier, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina accepted the proposal in principle and directed the ministry to initiate the necessary action. The project titled Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Space Observatory Centre will be built on a 10-acre plot in Faridpur district at an estimated cost of $25 million, according to the project proposal. It is expected to be completed by June 2023, and will have a 5-storey circular building that will house reflector telescopes. The height of the observatory tower will be kept at 100 meters. According to Mohammad Munir Chowdhury, the head of National Museum of Science and Technology, the spot chosen is an ideal location for the observatory, whose objective is to gear up technological progress, and create opportunities for space research in the South Asian country. ■

3 - UK farmers encouraged to take part in Big Farmland Bird Count
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/uk-farmers-encouraged-to-take-part-in-big-farmland-bird-count/
UK farmers encouraged to take part in Big Farmland Bird Count Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Farmers and gamekeepers are being encouraged to take part in this year’s Big Farmland Bird Count. The count, which takes place from February 5-14, is run by the Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust (GWCT). It aims to assess the effect of conservation schemes on farms and estates, such as supplementary feeding or growing wild bird seed or game cover crops. “Farmers and gamekeepers are vital in helping to ensure the survival of many of our farmland bird species such as skylark, yellowhammer and wild grey partridge,” said the GWCT. It encouraged people wishing to take part in the count to visit its dedicated website. “Then, between February 5 and 14, they should spend about 30 minutes recording the species and number of birds seen on one particular area of the farm – somewhere with a good view of around two hectares of the farm is ideal,” added the GWCT. “Ideally, counting should take place at first light as this is when the birds are most active. “However, what is most important is that you take part and submit a return, so timings should suit whoever is doing the count.” ■

4 - Dozens of 3,000-year-old coffins and mummies discovered in Egypt
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/dozens-of-3000yearold-coffins-and-mummies-discovered-in-egypt/
Dozens of 3,000-year-old coffins and mummies discovered in Egypt Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 18, 2021   Dozens of wooden coffins and mummies dating back over 3,000 years have been discovered in an ancient temple near Cairo. Egypt's former antiquities minister, archaeologist Zahi Hawass, revealed details of the treasures found in the vast Saqqara necropolis south of Cairo. Experts found a four-metre long papyrus that included texts of the Book of the Dead, which is a collection of spells aimed at directing the dead through the underworld in ancient Egypt. At least 22 burial wells were also discovered, containing 54 wooden coffins dating back to the New Kingdom that ruled Egypt between about 1570 BC and 1069 BC. Ancient games, statues, and masks were also found. On a nearby site, archaeologists unearthed the temple of Queen Neit, wife of King Teti, the first king of the Sixth Dynasty that ruled Egypt from 2323 BC until 2150 BC. ■

5 - First human culture lasted 20,000 years longer than thought
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/first-human-culture-lasted-20000-years-longer-than-thought/
First human culture lasted 20,000 years longer than thought Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 13, 2021   Fieldwork led by Dr. Eleanor Scerri, head of the Pan-African Evolution Research Group at the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Germany and Dr. Khady Niang of the University of Cheikh Anta Diop in Senegal, has documented the youngest known occurrence of the Middle Stone Age. This repertoire of stone flaking methods and the resulting tools includes distinctive ways of producing sharp flakes by carefully preparing nodules of rock, some of which were sometimes further shaped into tool forms known as 'scrapers' and 'points." Middle Stone Age finds most commonly occur in the African record between around 300 thousand and 30 thousand years ago, after which point they largely vanish. It was long thought that these tool types were replaced after 30 thousand years ago by a radically different, miniaturized toolkit better suited to diversified subsistence strategies and patterns of mobility across Africa. In a paper published in Scientific Reports this week, Scerri and colleagues show that groups of hunter-gatherers in what is today Senegal continued to use Middle Stone Age technologies associated with our species' earliest prehistory as late as 11 thousand years ago. This contrasts with the long-held view that humanity's major prehistoric cultural phases occurred in a neat and universal sequence. "West Africa is a real frontier for human evolutionary studies—we know almost nothing about what happened here in deep prehistory. Almost everything we know about human origins is extrapolated from discoveries in small parts of eastern and southern Africa," says Dr. Scerri, the lead author of the study. To redress this gap in the data, Scerri and Niang put together a research program to explore different regions of Senegal. The program ranges from Senegal's desert edges to its forests and along different stretches of its major river systems: the Senegal and the Gambia, where they found multiple Middle Stone Age sites, all with surprisingly young dates. "These discoveries demonstrate the importance of investigating the whole of the African continent, if we are to really get a handle on the deep human past," says Dr. Niang. "Prior to our work, the story from the rest of Africa suggested that well before 11 thousand years ago, the last traces of the Middle Stone Age—and the lifeways it reflects—were long gone." Explaining why this region of West Africa was home to such a late persistence of Middle Stone Age culture is not straightforward. "To the north, the region meets the Sahara Desert," explains Dr. Jimbob Blinkhorn, one of the paper's authors. "To the east, there are the Central African rainforests, which were often cut off from the West African rainforests during periods of drought and fragmentation. Even the river systems in West Africa form a self-contained and isolated group." "It is also possible that this region of Africa was less affected by the extremes of repeated cycles of climate change," adds Scerri. "If this was the case, the relative isolation and habitat stability may simply have resulted in little need for radical changes in subsistence, as reflected in the successful use of these traditional toolkits." "All we can be sure about is that this persistence is not simply about a lack of capacity to invest in the development of new technologies. These people were intelligent, they knew how to select good stone for their tool making and exploit the landscape they lived in," says Niang. The results fit in with a wider, emerging view that for most of humanity's deep prehistory, populations were relatively isolated from each other, living in subdivided groups in different regions. Accompanying this striking finding is the fact that in West Africa, the major cultural shift to more miniaturized toolkits also occurs extremely late compared to the rest of the continent. For a relatively short time, Middle Stone Age using populations lived alongside others using the more recently developed miniaturized tool kits, referred to as the "Later Stone Age." "This matches genetic studies suggesting that African people living in the last ten thousand years lived in very subdivided populations," says Dr. Niang. "We aren't sure why, but apart from physical distance, it may be the case that some cultural boundaries also existed. Perhaps the populations using these different material cultures also lived in slightly different ecological niches." Around 15 thousand years ago, there was a major increase in humidity and forest growth in central and western Africa, that perhaps linked different areas and provided corridors for dispersal. This may have spelled the final end for humanity's first and earliest cultural repertoire and initiated a new period of genetic and cultural mixing. "These findings do not fit a simple unilinear model of cultural change towards 'modernity,'" explains Scerri." Groups of hunter-gatherers embedded in radically different technological traditions occupied neighboring regions of Africa for thousands of years, and sometimes shared the same regions. Long isolated regions, on the other hand, may have been important reservoirs of cultural and genetic diversity," she adds. "This may have been a defining factor in the success of our species." ■

6 - 'Super Earth' discovered near one of our galaxy's oldest stars
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/super-earth-discovered-near-one-of-our-galaxys-oldest-stars/
'Super Earth' discovered near one of our galaxy's oldest stars Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 12, 2021   A hot, rocky "super Earth," near one of the oldest stars in the galaxy has taken a team of planet-hunting scientists by surprise. "For every day you're on Earth, this planet orbits its star twice," said UC Riverside planetary astrophysicist and team member Stephen Kane. Part of the reason for the short orbit is the planet's proximity to its star, which also creates incredible heat. Its estimated average surface temperature is over 2,000 degrees Kelvin—much too toasty to host life as we know it today, though it may once have been possible. In addition, Kane said that although the planet has roughly three times the mass of Earth, the team calculated its density to be the same as our planet. "This is surprising because you'd expect the density to be higher," Kane said. "This is consistent with the notion that the planet is extremely old." The older a planet is, the less dense it's likely to be because not as many heavy elements were available when it formed, explained Kane. Heavy elements are produced by fusion reactions in stars as they age. Eventually stars explode, dispersing these elements from which new stars and planets will form. Discovery of planet TOI-561b, and additional observations the team made about its composition, have been accepted for publication in the Astronomical Journal and are being presented Jan. 11 at the 2021 meeting of the American Astronomical Society. "TOI-561b is one of the oldest rocky planets yet discovered," said University of Hawaii postdoctoral fellow and team lead Lauren Weiss. "Its existence shows that the universe has been forming rocky planets almost since its inception 14 billion years ago." Named for NASA's Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, TESS Object of Interest (TOI) 561 belongs to a rare population of stars called the galactic thick disk. Stars in this region are chemically distinct, with fewer heavy elements such as iron or magnesium that are associated with planet building. The TESS Mission team used the University of California's access to the W.M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii—home to some of the most scientifically productive telescopes on Earth—to confirm the presence of planet TOI-561b. The observatory's equipment also helped the team calculate the planet's mass, density and radius. Astronomers are continually trying to understand the relationship between the mass and radius of the planets they find. This information yields insight about the interior structure of planets that with today's technology are too far away to visit and sample. "Information about a planet's interior gives us a sense of whether the surface of the planet is habitable by life as we know it," Kane said. "Though this particular planet is unlikely to be inhabited today, it may be a harbinger of a many rocky worlds yet to be discovered around our galaxy's oldest stars." ■

7 - Sharing leftover meat may have contributed to early dog domestication
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/sharing-leftover-meat-may-have-contributed-to-early-dog-domestication/
Sharing leftover meat may have contributed to early dog domestication Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 8, 2021   Humans feeding leftover lean meat to wolves during harsh winters may have had a role in the early domestication of dogs, towards the end of the last ice age (14,000 to 29,000 years ago), according to a study published in Scientific Reports. Maria Lahtinen and colleagues used simple energy content calculations to estimate how much energy would have been left over by humans from the meat of species they may have hunted 14,000 to 29,000 years that were also typical wolf prey species, such as horses, moose and deer. The authors hypothesized that if wolves and humans had hunted the same animals during harsh winters, humans would have killed wolves to reduce competition rather than domesticate them. With the exception of Mustelids such as weasels, the authors found that all prey species would have supplied more protein than humans could consume, resulting in excess lean meat that could be fed to wolves, thus reducing the competition for prey. Although humans may have relied on an animal-based diet during winters when plant-based foods were limited, they were probably not adapted to an entirely protein-based diet and may have favored meat rich in fat and grease over lean, protein-rich meat. As wolves can survive on a solely protein-based diet for months, humans may have fed excess lean meat to pet wolves, which may have enabled companionship even during harsh winter months. Feeding excess meat to wolves may have facilitated co-living with captured wolves and the use of pet wolves as hunting aids and guards may have further facilitated the domestication process, eventually to full dog domestication. ■

8 - Study of nebula IRAS 00500+6713 suggests its central star is unlike any seen before
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/study-of-nebula-iras-005006713-suggests-its-central-star-is-unlike-any-seen-before/
Study of nebula IRAS 00500+6713 suggests its central star is unlike any seen before Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 7, 2021   A team of researchers from Potsdam University and Kazan Federal University has found evidence of a previously unknown kind of star in nebula IRAS 00500+6713. In their paper published in the journal Astronomy & Astrophysics, the group describes their study of the nebula and its central star and what they believe it represents. Nebulas are clouds of dust and gas in certain regions in space—many of them can be seen with the naked eye in the night sky. Nebulas can also be associated with single or multiple star systems. In this new effort, the researchers were studying the nebula IRAS 00500+6713 because last year, another team of researchers had discovered a central star, called J005311, with a stellar wind of unusually high speeds. In taking a closer look at the star and its history, the researchers found that it had formed due to a collision between two white dwarves—an event that typically leads to a supernova and annihilation of both stars. Prior research has also shown, however, that when such stars collide, one or both of the stars may survive—and sometimes, they merge. The researchers found evidence suggesting that J005311 had formed as a merger. But the resulting star had unique attributes. It emitted unusual X-rays and was brighter than expected, suggesting it was too massive to be a white dwarf. Further study showed the star to have a unique composition dominated by oxygen and neon. That finding suggested the star was an unstable byproduct of two white dwarves colliding without creating a new white dwarf—instead, a new kind of star was born. The researchers suggest its instability suggests it likely will not last any longer than 10,000 years. Observations of the nebula by the team at the XMM-Newton space telescope (run by the European Space Agency) allowed them to determine its chemical composition and that of its central star. They found both contained unusual amounts of silicon, sulfur and neon. They also found evidence showing the star to be filled with very hot gas. They suggest that the star is of a type that has never been seen before. ■

9 - Spain records coldest temperature ever
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/spain-records-coldest-temperature-ever/
Spain records coldest temperature ever Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 7, 2021   The mercury dipped to minus 34.1 degrees Celsius at Clot del Tuc de la Llanca in Aragon in the Spanish Pyrenees at 5:19 a.m. on Wednesday, the lowest ever temperature recorded on the Iberian Peninsula. The previous record - minus 32 degrees Celsius - was recorded in 1956 in Estany Gento in the province of Lleida in northeastern Spain. The State Meteorological Agency of Spain (AEMET) issued a special notice of adverse phenomena, according to which from Jan. 6 most of Spain will be hit by a bout of extremely cold weather, and some provinces will even see heavy snowfall of up to 30-50 centimeters. The Madrid regional government will close access to the Sierra mountain range from Thursday onwards due to the large amounts of snow projected. Catalonia's Civil Protection Department has also activated an alert plan for the next three days. A cold wave has hit large parts of the northern hemisphere in recent days. The temperature in Beijing, capital of China, reached minus 17 degrees Celsius on Jan. 6, making it the coldest day of the 21st century, according to the Beijing meteorological station.  ■

10 - How giant dinosaurs may have spread seeds in prehistoric world
https://lite.poandpo.com/in-the-meantime/how-giant-dinosaurs-may-have-spread-seeds-in-prehistoric-world/
How giant dinosaurs may have spread seeds in prehistoric world Christian Fernsby ▼ | January 6, 2021   A new study from the University of Auckland looks at the animals' roles in moving seeds from one place to another. Evidence from fossils indicates that seeds consumed by dinosaurs could remain intact in their stomachs, suggesting a possible role in helping plants to spread in the prehistoric world. That led Professor George Perry, of the School of Environment, to look at how far dinosaurs may have spread the seeds, by modeling the animals' likely travel speeds along with their likely frequency of defecation—both factors that can be estimated from body weight. His work suggests that an optimum seed spreader might have been a dinosaur such as Triceratops, which may have weighed eight to 10 tons and moved at a maximum speed of around 25 kilometers per hour. Another dinosaur of similar body mass and potential seed dispersal capacity was Stegosaurus, which may have weighed six to eight tons. These dinosaurs may have spread seeds on average as far as 4 to 5 kilometers, and in rare cases, more than 30 kilometers. To Professor Perry, the work points to the complex relationships of living things within ecosystems—a topic that's especially relevant as the world experiences what some scientists describe as the "sixth mass extinction." "When we think about extinct animals, it's easy to just think of a long list—but in fact they all played inter-linked roles in our ecosystems." His article on dinosaurs and seeds, just published in the journal Biology Letters, draws on his ongoing and unpublished research with colleagues at Manaaki Whenua—Landcare Research into the roles that extinct New Zealand birds such as moa, huia and giant geese may have played in dispersing seeds. It also adds to previous speculation on the role that dinosaurs may have played in spreading plants. Fossilized plants with features that suggest they may have been dispersed by animals date as far back as 280 million years—and seeds from fossilized gut contents are just as old. Dinosaurs went extinct about 65 million years ago. Still, understanding exactly what role dinosaurs played in helping plants to spread may be difficult or impossible to establish from the fossil record. While dinosaurs certainly moved seeds, scientists don't know anything about the germination of those seeds. ■
