CNN Articles1 Army reservist with secret-level security clearance among the latest charged in connection with Capitol riot
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_366c7a68e82b70fddf1b622010e6d3ce
(CNN) - An Army reservist who federal investigators say has security-level security clearance and a long record of posting his extremist views online was among the latest wave of rioters charged by federal prosecutors in connection with the January 6 Capitol insurrection. Others charged this weekend include a woman who has been seen in photos brandishing the name plate that had been affixed outside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, authorities said, and the mother of a man who was arrested after he was captured in a striking photo on the Senate floor with zip-ties, now herself accused of chasing police officers with zip-ties in her hands.  The details that emerged about the three defendants and others in the newly unsealed court documents provide a clearer scope of the violence inside the Capitol and the potential military-style coordination that took place during the breach of the building. Lawyers for each of them were not listed in an online federal court filing system. Federal investigators said the Army reservist — Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, of Colts Neck, New Jersey — was described by an informant as "an avowed White supremacist and Nazi sympathizer." According to court documents, in a phone call with the informant on Thursday that was recorded by law enforcement, Hale-Cusanelli can be heard saying that he encouraged members of the mob to "advance" through the Capitol and gave directions "via both voice and hand signals." It's not clear if he's been arrested.  Authorities identified Emily Hernandez, of Sullivan, Missouri, as the woman who allegedly stole the Pelosi placard. In a number of photos investigators included in court records, they identify her as the woman seen smiling as she brandishes the jagged wooden fragment before a crowd.  It was not clear on Sunday if she had been arrested either. The placard will cost $870 to replace, according to an estimate from the curator of the House of Representatives that was cited in the court documents. Lisa Eisenhart -- the mother of Eric Munchel, a Nashville man who was arrested last week and identified by authorities as a person pictured carrying zip ties in the building -- was taken into custody in Tennessee on Saturday. She's charged with breaking into the Capitol and disorderly conduct, according to the Justice Department. According to a charging document, Eisenhart is seen on video footage holding flex cuffs, or plastic restraints, as she chases police officers as part of a mob inside the building. Prosecutors in the nation's capital have charged about 100 cases related to the riot, and there are more than 275 open investigations into potential criminal activity on that day, acting US Attorney Michael Sherwin said on Friday. Among the newest slate of charges are some of the more notorious crimes, as well as unsettling allegations of participation by far-right extremists. Investigators identified Chad Jones of Mt. Washington, Kentucky, as the man seen in a video using the end of a flagpole with a Trump flag to bash a door that leads to the Speaker's Lobby outside the House chamber, according to a charging document. Lawmakers had been evacuated through that lobby just minutes before.  Jones was allegedly in the same mob that included Ashli Babbitt, the rioter who was shot and killed by Capitol Police, according to the charging document. It was not clear Sunday if he had been arrested. And a man who was captured wearing a Proud Boys T-shirt and holding up the corner of a Confederate flag on the Capitol grounds -- according to an FBI agent, citing photos, in a court document -- was arrested on Sunday in Maryland, the Department of Justice said.  The document alleges that Bryan Betancur told law enforcement in the past that he was a member of several White supremacist organizations, and stated at one point that he wanted to "run people over with a vehicle and kill people in a church."  Betancur had been wearing a GPS monitor in connection with a previous probation violation, authorities said, and location data referenced in a charging document against him shows his presence in restricted areas of the Capitol grounds.  On Sunday, authorities in Washington, DC, arrested a New Mexico county commissioner who had climbed on to a restricted platform around the Capitol to preach to the crowd outside during the insurrection. Couy Griffin had returned to DC and was taken into custody just blocks away from the Capitol after Capitol Police officers ran his license plate and noticed that he had an outstanding warrant for his arrest, according to a law enforcement official. He is charged with entering a restricted area of the Capitol complex. It wasn't immediately clear who he had retained as his lawyer.  A county commissioner in Otero County, New Mexico, Griffin had discussed his presence at the Capitol riot at a public meeting of the commission on Thursday, telling colleagues that he led a prayer session from a restricted-access deck of the Capitol building. He also announced in the meeting that he planned to return to Washington ahead of the inauguration this week, and that he would bring his guns in his car.  "I'm going to go back to Washington, DC, I'm gonna be there on January 20," he said, according to video of the remarks posted online. "I'm gonna take a stand for our country and for our freedoms because this election was fraudulent on every level." Others arrested over the weekend had also pledged to return to DC to fight.  Cousins Daniel Adams and Cody Connell are described by authorities as storming the Capitol together earlier this month. According to court documents, Adams led a group of rioters who charged a line of Capitol Police officers that were holding protective shields and guarding a set of stairs in front of the building. An FBI agent identified him in photos posted online in part by his "mullet hairstyle," according to an affidavit. Both men were arrested on Saturday — Adams in Texas and Connell in Louisiana.  Authorities said they believe that Connell had been planning to return to DC for the week of the inauguration, citing witnesses that he communicated with about purchasing rifles, ammunition and body armor. "According to the witness," an FBI agent wrote in a charging document, "Connell explained that he was not returning to Louisiana unless he was in a body bag." A 24-year-old man alleged to be a member of the far-right armed group The Three Percenters -- and who runs his own private paramilitary training group -- was charged Sunday night for his role in the riot, according to court documents. Robert Gieswein of Colorado wore a patch representing his group, the Woodland Wild Dogs, on the tactical vest he wore to the Capitol, prosecutors said, citing social media. Gieswein faces five charges that include allegations of entering the Capitol, spraying a substance from a canister at police and helping the crowd lift a temporary barrier to block police, according to new court records filed in federal court in Washington, DC.  This story has been updated with additional information.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

2 FBI investigates tip that a woman possibly stole a laptop from Pelosi's office to potentially sell it to Russia
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_58ec087367e88696ff7a82c336983334
(CNN) - In a new criminal court case against a woman alleged to have entered the US Capitol on January 6, the FBI noted that a tipster raised the possibility of a laptop being stolen from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office to potentially sell to Russia. There's no indication in the court record that a laptop was actually taken from Pelosi's office, though Pelosi's deputy chief of staff, Drew Hammill, tweeted two days after the attack that there was a laptop stolen that was used for presentations and that was in a conference room. The FBI says in the court record the "matter remains under investigation." It's not known if the two incidents are connected at all, or even if the tipster's information about a stolen laptop is accurate.  It's one of the more bizarre details to emerge in the avalanche of court filings against people accused of storming the Capitol.    In this case, a person who said they are the former romantic partner of Riley June Williams of Pennsylvania identified Williams to the FBI in video inside the Capitol building and directing people "upstairs" to Pelosi's office, according to an affidavit filed Sunday supporting Williams' arrest. The tipster "also claimed to have spoken to friends of Williams, who showed (the tipster) a video of Williams taking a laptop computer or hard drive from Speaker Pelosi's office," the affidavit says. The tipster "stated that Williams intended to send the computer device to a friend in Russia, who then planned to sell the device to SVR, Russia's foreign intelligence service." The person told the FBI the "transfer of the computer device to Russia fell through for unknown reasons and Williams still has the computer device or destroyed it," the affidavit says.   A Justice Department spokeswoman told CNN on Monday that Williams had surrendered to authorities. Williams is not accused of theft. She is only charged with violent entry or disorderly conduct, and entering the restricted space of the Capitol, the same charges faced by many who took part in the siege that day.  The FBI also noted it appeared that Williams had fled and deleted her social media accounts. This story has been updated with Williams' arrest. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

3 Terrifying scope of Capitol attack becoming clearer as Washington locks down for Biden's inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_636607b38058d6f43093a0306779cbcc
Washington  (CNN) - Federal authorities are piecing together a chilling picture of the January 6 insurrection that reveals major security and intelligence failures, underscores profound fissures in American society and hints at the political challenges ahead for President-elect Joe Biden, even as they race to ensure the safety of US leaders and next week's inauguration. Emerging details paint an even grimmer picture than the shocking images of violence broadcast live around the world last week. Evidence suggests planning by the insurrectionists, and there are concerns that they may have received support from some Capitol Police, current and former members of the military, and even some members of Congress. As rioters broke into the Capitol building and some chanted "hang Mike Pence," the seditious mob ripped through the "thin blue line" many claim to revere, kicking and beating police with their own batons, spraying them with chemical irritants, threatening to kill them. One policeman and four others died that day. Once inside the building, The Washington Post reports the insurrectionists came within minutes of reaching the vice president, who was whisked to safety with his wife and daughter. Some had driven to the Capitol days earlier, others had filled their vehicles with guns, ammunition, crossbows, machetes and, in one case, a note listing a congressman by name. Fearing for their safety Days after the attack, even as security reinforcements arrive, some lawmakers tell CNN they now fear for their safety. While some Republicans argued President Donald Trump's unprecedented second impeachment will only inflame divisions, federal officials warned that extremists, after seeing the results of last week's attack on the US Capitol, are now likely more emboldened to carry out attacks on the January 20 inauguration and throughout 2021. An internal FBI bulletin disseminated to law enforcement this week warned that "armed protests" are being planned at all 50 state capitols and in Washington in the days leading up to Biden's swearing in. Federal law enforcement agencies issued urgent bulletins calling for assistance securing the nation's capital, which now bristles with road blocks and steel barriers to wall off the "People's House" and will host as many as 25,000 National Guard -- a stronger military footprint than the US has in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria combined. By Friday, the FBI had received 140,000 digital tips regarding the attack, including photos and video, federal officials had opened 275 criminal investigations, charged roughly 98 individuals, and taken 100 individuals into custody.  As senior administration leaders who would normally take the lead remained silent for days -- including the heads of the Justice Department, the Department of Homeland Security and the President himself -- federal officials launched the most extensive counterterrorism probe since September 11, 2001, and continued planning to fortify Washington.  "Our posture is aggressive. It's going to stay that way through the inauguration," FBI Director Christopher Wray said at a Thursday briefing on inauguration security. He added that the agency was monitoring "extensive" online chatter about further potential armed protests and issued a warning to the men and woman who wreaked havoc on the Capitol.  "We know who you are, if you're out there," Wray said, "and FBI agents are coming to find you." The domestic terrorists struck at a time when the US government is confronting the worst known cyberattack by a foreign adversary in its history, with Russia suspected of penetrating hundreds of businesses and numerous federal agencies. Their bloodshed and destruction come as Covid-19 claims record daily death tolls and a jobs crisis is brewing, with nearly 1 million people filing for unemployment benefits for the first time last week. The insurrection, fueled by Trump's lies about his definitive election loss, exposed the reach of baseless conspiracy theories that have radicalized Americans to the point that they laid siege to their own Capitol. The events of that day raise questions about intelligence failures, the military's lethargic response as panicked lawmakers pleaded by telephone for help, and law enforcement's potential blind spots or willful ignorance about the dangers posed by white supremacists and right-wing nativists. Those groups formed a combustible mix with the anti-Semites and QAnon conspiracists rampaging on January 6 to create an existential crisis for the Republican Party, which faces the choice of remaining in thrall to Trump and his more toxic supporters or breaking away.  It creates a challenge for the larger country as well, according to CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein, who said the trajectory of Trump's "white nationalist extremism has been very clear" for the last four years, as are the potential costs to US security if it is left unchecked.   "President Trump has provided an enormous amount of oxygen to this very dangerous ideology," Brownstein told Jake Tapper on Thursday. "And unless everyone involved, the Justice Department, law enforcement, Congress, is very serious about imposing consequences and taking the threat seriously, this could become a steady drumbeat through the Biden presidency." "The question is, can we more broadly send a signal that says we are not going to tolerate and look the other way as this metastasizes," Brownstein said. Ideologically motivated violence Already, thousands of armed pro-Trump extremists are plotting to surround the US Capitol ahead of Biden's inauguration, according to a lawmaker briefed by security officials Monday. A joint US government intelligence bulletin said the January 6 attack, meant to disrupt the certification of Biden's victory, may have given extremists of differing ideological stripes a way to connect. The bulletin warned that the insurrection "is very likely part of an ongoing trend in which (extremists) exploit lawful protests, rallies, and demonstrations, and other gatherings to carry out ideologically motivated violence and criminal activity."  Multiple defense officials have told CNN that the National Guard and law enforcement expect explosives like pipe bombs and Molotov cocktails to be used in any coming unrest. They are assuming perpetrators will come with high "aggression," said one senior defense official, who added, "their intentions are very serious." Pipe bombs that could have done serious damage were planted outside the Republican and Democratic party headquarters in Washington last week but didn't go off.  The expertise behind the bombs and the ease with which the raucous crowd seemed to mill about the Capitol complex with little resistance raised concerns participants had insider help and military expertise.  At least two US Capitol Police officers were suspended and at least 10 more are under investigation for allegedly playing some sort of role, CNN reported. Michael Sherwin, the acting US attorney in Washington, DC, confirmed Friday that "we're seeing indications that law enforcement officers, both former and current, maybe who have been off duty, participating in this riot activity."  "We don't care what your profession is, who you are, who you are affiliated with, if you are conducting or engaged in criminal activity, we will charge you and you will be arrested," Sherwin said.  Military members Part of that hunt is for "several" people possibly involved in the killing of Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, according to two law enforcement officials. On Friday, Steven D'Antuono of the FBI's Washington Field Office said his investigators are "making progress" on the investigation and are looking at "anyone and everyone" who may be involved. He did not give specifics on the scope of the investigation. In the days after the attack, court records and news reports also confirmed that current and former US military members participated in the insurrection. The news triggered unprecedented statements from the leaders of major security agencies who felt the need to remind their men and women their loyalty is to the Constitution.  On Tuesday, the America's most senior military leaders condemned the violent invasion and reminded service members of their obligation to support and defend the Constitution and reject extremism. The Defense Department has observed an increase in white supremacist ideology amongst active-duty service members and veterans, a senior defense official told CNN. The next day, US Secret Service Director James Murray sent agency employees a message urging them to remember their mission and remain professional during the upcoming inauguration. "We are expected to behave in a non-partisan manner," his memo said.  Video images of a Capitol Police officer wearing a MAGA hat during the invasion and of another taking selfies with rioters left lawmakers deeply shaken. According to the Wall Street Journal, the officer seen wearing the trademark red cap put it on as part of a ruse to rescue more than a dozen trapped police officers during the riot. The officer has been suspended and an investigation is underway.    "There were those acts of heroism, but next to that, there were also attacks of betrayal," Democratic Rep. Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez of New York said Tuesday on Instagram Live. "And to run in the nation's Capitol and not know if an officer is there to help you or to harm you is also quite traumatizing." "I did not know if I was going to make it to the end of that day alive," Ocasio-Cortez said. "It is not an exaggeration to say that many, many members of the House were nearly assassinated." Some members are asking for bulletproof vests, considering getting their own security and taking other steps, such as changing their routes to work, lawmakers told CNN. Meanwhile, some Republicans expressed outrage at metal detectors installed at the entrance to the House chamber. Many House lawmakers are considering another appalling possibility: that the mob got assistance from some of their colleagues.  Thirty-one members of Congress sent a letter to the acting House Sergeant at Arms, acting Senate Sergeant at Arms, and the acting chief of the US Capitol Police asking them to investigate "unusual" and "concerning" tours they saw and reported to the Sergeant at Arms on January 5. "Many of the Members who signed this letter, including those of us who have served in the military and are trained to recognize suspicious activity, as well as various members of our staff, witnessed an extremely high number of outside groups in the complex on Tuesday, January 5," the letter states.  The groups of six to eight, who wore MAGA apparel, according to Democratic Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon of Pennsylvania, "could only have gained access to the Capitol Complex from a Member of Congress or a member of their staff," the letter said. Coordination "I kind of assumed it must be a new member who didn't know the rules or something," Scanlon of Pennsylvania, one of the co-signers, told CNN. "There were people who were roaming around in the halls, apparently under the guidance of congressional staff" at a time when tours have been canceled due to Covid. At least one right-wing conspiracist said he coordinated the rally where Trump spoke before the riot with three House Republicans: Reps. Paul Gosar and Andy Biggs of Arizona, and Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama, who spoke before the President took the stage and urged the crowd to "start taking down names and kicking ass." Brooks, Gosar and several other House GOP lawmakers are facing criticism for their incendiary language in the hours, days and weeks before the siege. Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado, who is affiliated with the QAnon movement and regularly spreads right-wing conspiracy theories, has also come under scrutiny for tweeting about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's whereabouts as the attack was unfolding.  On Friday, Pelosi announced retired Lt. Gen. Russel Honoré, a former vice director with the Joint Chiefs of staff, would lead a review of the Capitol's security. She added that, "if, in fact, it is found that members of Congress were accomplices to this insurrection, if they aided and abetted the crime, there may have to be actions taken beyond the Congress in terms of prosecution for that."   Later that day, when asked if they are investigating allegations that Capitol Police and lawmakers were involved in the riot, D'Antuono of the FBI's Washington Field Office said they will "leave no stone unturned" and are "looking at every piece of the puzzle." Sherwin, the acting US attorney for Washington, DC, told reporters earlier in the week that "we're looking at significant felony cases tied to sedition and conspiracy." Evidence of planning Evidence uncovered so far, including weapons and tactics seen on surveillance video, suggests a level of planning, a federal law enforcement official said. And court filings are offering shocking new details. One memo in a filing Friday seeks to extend the detention of Jacob Anthony Chansley, the face-painted QAnon believer who rallied people inside the Capitol wearing a horned headdress and carrying a six-foot spear and a bullhorn.   Prosecutors describe those who took over the Capitol as "insurrectionists" and offer new details about Chansley's role in the violent siege last week, including that Chansley left a note on the dais where Vice President Pence had stood that morning saying, "It's only a matter of time, justice is coming." Chansley later told the FBI he did not mean the note as a threat but said the vice president was a "child-trafficking traitor." Before he was arrested, Chansley also told the FBI he wanted to return to Washington for the inauguration to protest. In a separate case, prosecutors in Texas alleged that a retired Air Force reservist who carried plastic zip tie-like restraints on the Senate floor may have intended to restrain lawmakers. It was one of the many chilling details to emerge as investigators tracked down some of the most recognizable faces from the riot. Authorities apprehended the man in widely circulated photos carrying a Confederate flag inside Capitol Hill, another who had worn a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt and the Olympic gold medalist swimmer Klete Keller. Federal officials also charged Peter Stager, a burly bearded man, with beating a DC police officer with a flagpole that had an American flag on it. "Everybody in there is a treasonous traitor," Stager said in a video obtained by the FBI. "Death is the only remedy for what's in that building." A few arrests suggest the apparent murderous intent of some in the crowd. One man from Alabama faces 17 criminal counts, largely for possession of multiple weapons, including a shotgun, a rifle, three pistols and 11 Molotov cocktails, as well as ammunition and shotgun shells without registration, according to an indictment.  After living in his truck in DC for about a week, the man parked it about a block from the Capitol on January 6, according to court documents. Police started searching the truck after spotting a firearm handle and found the weapons, as well as a stun gun, several machetes, a crossbow; several large-capacity ammunition-feeding devices; and hundreds of rounds of ammunition, according to a memorandum that prosecutors filed January 12 in support of his detention. Also in the truck: the handwritten note with Indiana Rep. Andre Carson's name and an added observation that he is "one of two Muslims in House of Reps."  The second man is alleged to have driven from Colorado to Washington, DC, a day before Trump's rally with more than 2,500 rounds of ammunition and an assault rifle. He is said to have texted acquaintances that he wanted to shoot or run over House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and shoot DC Mayor Muriel Bowser, according to court records.  "If I had a more concerning threats case come before me, I don't remember it," Magistrate Judge Michael Harvey of the DC District Court said Thursday.   Some lawmakers' experiences made them worry that the rioters had a level of careful preparation that belies the narrative of a protest that wheeled out of control.  Rep. Ayanna Pressley, a Massachusetts Democrat, told CNN that someone removed panic buttons installed throughout her office that had been regularly tested and maintained. An investigation is underway, said Pressley, who said the discovery was "certainly unnerving." Carson, whose name was on the note found in the car filled with weaponry and ammunition, is among a growing list of lawmakers critical of law enforcement's handling of the insurgency. "It is extremely disturbing to learn from press reports that I was one of several individuals identified in a list of 'good guys' and 'bad guys' targeted for attacks," Carson said in a statement provided to CNN. "As a former law enforcement officer, it is especially disappointing to see the failure of law enforcement officials, including the U.S. Capitol Police, to notify individuals like myself that we were targeted and at risk from the indicted terrorist and his co-conspirators." Failures Investigators will be asking how federal authorities missed so many red flags, why they were so underprepared and slow to react. The FBI and the Department of Homeland Security failed to issue threat assessments about the potential of violence at the US Capitol ahead of last week's deadly attack, according to a source familiar with the matter and a senior DHS official. Typically, the FBI and DHS will produce a joint threat assessment for high-profile events and send it to law enforcement officials and relevant stakeholders. But no such report was compiled by either agency for the January 6 certification of Biden's victory, a controversial event for the President's followers. The Washington Post reported Friday that three days before the attack, an internal Capitol Police intelligence report warned that angry Trump supporters could attack "Congress itself." The 12-page report describes a scenario eerily like the one that unfolded, with the President's enraged backers trying to stop Biden's certification and overturn the election results. A day before the chaos erupted, an FBI outpost in Virginia issued an internal warning that extremists were coming to Washington prepared to commit violence. The Post also reported that dozens of people on a terrorist watch list came to Washington for the January 6 events. The majority of them were suspected white supremacists with track records so disturbing they were put on the national Terrorist Screening Database as potential security risks. Four federal agencies announced Friday they are opening investigations into their own roles on January 6. The Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice and the Interior Department will all examine their preparations for the events in Washington that day that may have played a part in allowing rioters to breach the Capitol. These agencies and others are now preparing for rioters to descend on the Capitol again.  The Secret Service is taking the lead on Biden's inauguration security planning. The National Mall will be closed to the general public on Inauguration Day, according to an official familiar with discussions.  There will be no big screens, no toilets and the public will not be able to get down to the Mall where traditionally thousands gather to watch the new president be sworn in, the official said.   The President-elect and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris are still expected to take their oaths of office on the West Front of the US Capitol during a significantly scaled-down event. Biden said this week that his team had been receiving briefings in the wake of the violence and that he was "not afraid of taking the oath outside." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

4 Pence has tried to reach Capitol Police officer who led rioters away from Senate chambers to offer thanks
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_8a35482bbfe3fd0498cf7a860d32cf22
Washington  (CNN) - Vice President Mike Pence reached out to Capitol Police officer Eugene Goodman late last week to thank him for his efforts during the attack on the US Capitol, a person close to Pence told CNN, but they haven't connected yet. Goodman has been hailed as a hero after video emerged of him guiding the violent mob away from the Senate chamber, where Pence had been conducting the ceremonial counting of the 2020 electoral votes on January 6. The source told CNN that Pence will make some final calls Monday and is "hopeful" they'll connect. The attempted outreach from Pence is just the latest example of the vice president taking on more of the public-facing role of commander-in-chief as President Donald Trump is holed up in the White House, silenced on social media and refusing to speak to the man who beat him or abandon the baseless election conspiracies that helped incite the rioters. Pence, on the other hand, called Vice President-elect Kamala Harris last week and visited National Guard members guarding the Capitol.  Many in Pence's orbit remain furious at how Trump behaved the day of the insurrection attempt, which brought rioters within seconds of encountering Pence and members of his family in the hallways outside the Senate chamber.  Footage from the January 6 insurrection captured by Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic shows Goodman being chased up a Capitol staircase by a mob of insurrectionists shortly after they'd broken in. When he reached a landing, he looked to his left, where he noticed the door to the Senate chambers was still unguarded. He then led the rioters to the right, away from lawmakers and toward backup officers. The Senate chambers wouldn't be secured until one minute later, according to CNN's timeline of events from the riot. As a result, a bipartisan trio of lawmakers wants to recognize Goodman with a Congressional Gold Medal for potentially saving lives. Democratic Reps. Charlie Crist of Florida and Emanuel Cleaver II of Missouri and Republican Rep. Nancy Mace of South Carolina introduced legislation last week to award Goodman the medal, reserved for Americans who've made "distinguished achievements and contributions" to their country. "By putting his own life on the line and successfully, single-handedly leading insurrectionists away from the floor of the Senate Chamber, Officer Eugene Goodman performed his duty to protect Congress with distinction, and by his actions, Officer Goodman left an indelible mark on American history," the legislation reads. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

5 Why extremism experts fear the Capitol attack is just the beginning
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_3df15ee5db9033d45b657f6d4eabeb8b
(CNN) - The US Capitol is surrounded by fences and troops amid fear the January 6 riots could spark violence this weekend and leading up to Wednesday's inauguration.  But experts worry the real threat may be what the attack unleashed for the long term.  "The plots of tomorrow are literally being hatched right now," Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism, told CNN.  Experts shared growing concern about chatter around a unifying message of people who feel wronged -- by those in power, by the political system and by Big Tech.  They're also worried that the numbers of potentially violent extremists are growing. Social media giants banned President Donald Trump and others over fears their posts would continue to spark violence, which the experts said has led to a sympathetic and growing audience at risk of radicalization.  Some who had communicated via Facebook, Twitter or even Parler are now on other platforms. Those include Telegram, where extremists and White supremacist channels have existed and spewed hate for years in channels largely unmoderated until just days ago.  On many of these channels, there is frequent praise of mass killers, tactical instructions and vile and disturbing radicalizing content being spread rapidly.   "Our moderators are reviewing an increased number of reports related to public posts with calls to violence, which are expressly forbidden by our Terms of Service," Telegram spokesperson Remi Vaughn told CNN in a statement on Wednesday. Vaughn added: "We welcome peaceful discussion and peaceful protests, but routinely remove publicly available content that contains direct calls to violence."  The search for 'fresh blood' Segal calls the Capitol attack a seminal moment and says it will have a major impact, even more than the country's historically biggest catalysts for major anti-government activity.  "It ain't Waco, it's not Ruby Ridge, this is bigger than that," Segal explains comparing January 6 to past events that sparked calls to action and inspired deeper distrust and sometimes hatred against the government. "This stuff impacts more people."  In public and private chats there are common messages about plotting to "take back America" or rallying together against supposed censorship, according to Angelo Carusone, president and CEO of Media Matters for America. Carusone and his team have been tracking extremist language and posting in a variety of media landscapes.  "We saw these mass migrations from traditional platforms like Twitter and Facebook to a surge of activity on Parler, and then a secondary surge of activity onto platforms like Telegram as these intermediate groups started to build up redundancy in their communications," he says.  "And that meant fresh blood," Carusone says.  Fringe online spaces are now seeing far-right figures, hate-filled White supremacists, and racists who have clamored for civil war mix with QAnon conspiracists and ardent President Trump supporters who have listened to him for years and believe the election was stolen from them.  And many are figuring out what to do next -- and how to craft their messages.  In one neo-Nazi-focused chat, a member urged restraint in language to avoid alienating newcomers, Carusone said.  Disturbing content alone isn't enough The FBI said in a statement to CNN that while some of the content may be disturbing, authorities cannot take action on that alone.  "The FBI cannot open an investigation without a threat of violence or alleged criminal activity. However, when that language does turn to a call for violence or criminal activity, the FBI is able to undertake investigative activity," the agency said.  Investigators could face a tougher task of finding some people who have been removed from the bigger platforms.   "It is more and more important to know where they're going, especially if they're moving even further and further behind the veil," Carusone said. "If you lose track of them entirely, you lose that that information pipeline, you lose the ability to identify those indicators, which means it's harder to prevent harm."  Prevention efforts must go beyond mere barricades and officers, Carusone says.  "It's actually the mechanisms that are radicalizing these individuals," Carusone says. "It's the algorithms that are helping connect people. It's the disinformation."  None of the protests this weekend or at the inauguration will feature an actual Trump rally. Experts say that's a good sign, along with the increased law enforcement presence in Washington, DC.  In many messaging apps and boards, some are calling for a boycott of events this weekend and the inauguration. Michael Edison Hayden, the Southern Poverty Law Center senior investigative reporter and spokesperson,  says high-profile names and  podcasters Mike Peinovich and Nick Fuentes have told their followers not to go to rallies. The ADL says that White supremacist Peinovich, known as Mike Enoch, and the far-right Fuentes have been rallying voices of discontent for years.   Though there still are some concerning messages out there, Hayden says he believes the probability of violence in DC is not as high as it was on January 6 -- when there was a lot of online chatter, a major political event in the certifying of an election and a Trump rally.  Federal authorities are also tracking dozens of people who pose potential concerns of violence who may be coming to Washington for events around the Inauguration, according to a source briefed on intelligence shared among federal and local law enforcement.  Experts worry some people will turn to their state Capitols to express their anger. Hayden says posts of coordinates and maps of statehouses have been posted online. The FBI has received information indicating "armed protests" are being planned at all 50 state capitols in the days leading up to the inauguration, according to an internal bulletin obtained by CNN earlier this week. What could happen next A bigger concern for experts tracking hate and extremism online? What may happen after this weekend and the inauguration.  Segal said extremists might move cautiously in coming days, from both paranoia and knowing they're being watched.    "It's not before inauguration that we need to be concerned about them trying to spark another civil war -- it's after," Segal told CNN.  Segal says it is helpful to look at the situation in Michigan last spring when thinking how things could unfold after the Capitol attack.  "The reopen protests ended up resulting in part in an attempt to kidnap the governor," Segal explains.  Trump was very much a part of that, too. He repeatedly criticized Gov. Gretchen Whitmer about her Covid-19 restrictions before and after the news of the plot against her.  Experts note that at the protests against her moves, there too was a cross-pollination of people who showed up -- self-declared militia members, anarchists, those with anti-government beliefs and anti-vaxxers.  Now, take those existing grievances and add lies about the election being stolen and the Capitol attack. That kind of kinetic energy is hard to stop, experts fear.  Heading 'into a buzzsaw' The extremism experts agree on several glaring points on how we got here and where we may be going. America is in the midst of a mass radicalization of sorts. The fire starter was not Trump, they say; he simply threw gas on the flames.  Seeing Biden inaugurated, a Black and South Asian woman as his Vice President, and then realizing that Trump is gone will fan the flames for those who will falsely claim the Biden administration is illegitimate, Segal warns. Carusone says this is just the beginning of the country heading "into a buzzsaw" due to divisiveness, extremist actions and political rhetoric.  "Trump has gift-wrapped the narrative for the next four years," Segal explains.  The experts worry about a false sense of security emerging if the country makes it through the inauguration without any violence. But what happens when the barricades come down? When National Guard troops leave? When tech platforms, the general public, and the media turn their attention to other issues?  The threat will remain, the experts say.  "All of those new people being brought into these communities creates new opportunity for expanding the ranks," Carusone said. "There's going to be a lot of new people ... organized and exposed to a set of prescriptions that ultimately bring us back to the same place ... leading up to the attack on the Capitol.  "Except in this case, it'll be more of them."  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

6 Officials remain vigilant ahead of Biden inauguration after small weekend protests
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_8bf1a05abb2018dcbba082e9b6c5ba1a
(CNN) - Dozens of armed demonstrators gathered at the state Capitol in Richmond, Virginia, on Monday as authorities remained on alert at capitols across the United States two days ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.  Several demonstrators in Richmond identified themselves as members of the Proud Boys and Boogaloo groups as well as the Black Panthers. The demonstrations were part of the state's annual "Lobby Day," an event held in support of Second Amendment rights and hosted by the Virginia Citizens Defense League.  Car caravans originating from across the state of Virginia also converged on downtown Richmond. The Citizens Defense League, unable to obtain a permit to hold their yearly rally downtown, held the caravan instead. The Richmond Police Department reminded demonstrators in a tweet Monday that the city has banned firearms at permitted events, which are events of 11 or more people that obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The demonstrations came after a state of emergency was declared in Richmond ahead of anticipated protests at the state Capitol and Gov. Ralph Northam activated the National Guard in the wake of the deadly insurrection at the US Capitol. Weekend protests were quiet  Officials braced for potential unrest this weekend after an internal FBI bulletin warned that such demonstrations were being planned at all 50 state capitols through at least Wednesday.  But protests were largely small, with demonstrators -- some of whom were armed -- vastly outnumbered by police. A light snow fell Sunday morning in Lansing, Michigan, but an estimated 75 demonstrators and 40 counterprotesters showed up at the Statehouse. Some carried firearms and wore body armor, but protests remained peaceful, officials said. "We wanted to make sure what happened in Washington did not happen here in Michigan," Lt. Michael Shaw of Michigan State Police told CNN, "so we put a lot more security outside, a lot more visible security than normally would be there."  In Texas, about two dozen armed demonstrators gathered near the state Capitol in Austin, but they rallied in support of Second Amendment rights, the organizer said -- not in protest of the results of the presidential election.  In Denver, demonstrator Larry Woodall said he was disappointed by the low turnout of Sunday's protest. While he accepted that Biden will be inaugurated, Woodall said he wanted to show his support for Trump, suggesting he would vote for Trump in 2024 if he ran for president again.  "Donald Trump ain't a bad guy. He really isn't," Woodall told CNN, adding he was opposed to the violence seen this month at the US Capitol.  About a dozen people -- including some who held anti-Trump signs -- were at the Minnesota Capitol in St. Paul, which was surrounded by tall, heavy fencing. There were five armed people dressed in camouflage and carrying flags at the Oregon state Capitol in Salem who said they were anti-government libertarians who supported neither Trump nor Biden. At Ohio's Statehouse in Columbus, a small group of protesters gathered next to a statue of President William McKinley amid a large police presence and metal barriers, CNN affiliate WSYX reported. About 40 protesters gathered at the Statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina, for a rally over free speech after social media companies banned Trump, according to CNN affiliate WIS. The organizer of the event, Shawn Laurie, told WIS he didn't condone the riot at the US Capitol but felt he was being restricted on social media, hampering others from understanding who he really is.  "I'm a patriot, I'm a veteran, I'm not a racist, I'm not hateful, I'm not violent," he told the station. "I'm an American and that's it." Whatever crowds were present were just a fraction of the pro-Trump crowds that converged on Washington, DC, earlier this month, an incident that eventually swelled into a full-on riot and left five dead.  Many of Sunday's demonstrations were dwarfed by the ranks of police who stood guard to prevent a repeat of the Capitol riot.  DC is 'like a combat zone' Meanwhile, the Pentagon has authorized up to 25,000 National Guard troops for Inauguration Day -- an unusually large number, according to retired Army Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling, a CNN military analyst. "The National Guard -- or the forefathers of the National Guard, the early days of the militia -- have been a part of every inauguration since George Washington," he said, "but certainly not at this level and certainly not with this kind of background noise going on."  The deployment of 25,000 troops is about twice the number of National Guard members normally involved in the inauguration, Hertling said.   "It certainly is somewhat like a combat zone," he said. The rehearsal for the inauguration ceremony was delayed until Monday amid heightened security concerns, acting Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Ken Cuccinelli said, citing "online chatter" about the previously scheduled rehearsal day of Sunday. But he said there are "no specific credible threats." Guests of members of Congress will not be required to undergo security background checks this year, multiple sources told CNN on Monday. Guests ordinarily do not have background checks for events such as the inauguration because those guests tend to be spouses of members and other security measures are in place. Member guests will be required to take a Covid-19 tests. Both members of Congress and their guests will be required to pass through security in order to enter the event. "In order to maintain critical operational security surrounding the 59th Presidential Inauguration, the U.S. Secret Service and our law enforcement partners will not be commenting on the means and methods used to conduct the agency mission, inclusive of protective intelligence matters," US Secret Service spokesperson Justine Whelan told CNN in a statement.  The Federal Aviation Administration expanded restrictions on DC's airspace, posting a notice to pilots restricting noncommercial and nonmilitary flights to Dulles International Airport, Baltimore Washington International Airport and Manassas Regional Airport between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Inauguration Day.  The bulletin warned that the government "may use deadly force" against any aircraft that's determined to pose an "imminent security threat."  Many of the capital's monuments and buildings are inaccessible, including the National Mall, which will be closed through at least Thursday. The iconic lawn stretching from the Capitol to the White House, typically a viewing area for presidential inaugurations, was deserted Sunday -- something National Park Service spokesman Mike Litterst told CNN was "unprecedented, almost surreal."  "But it is being done," he said, "to guarantee that the constitutional mandate of a peaceful transfer of power on January 20 takes place." 'I encourage you to stay home' State leaders ramped up security around their capitol grounds in recent days -- pulling in National Guard members for help, erecting barriers, boarding up windows, asking residents to avoid the areas and some even closing down capitol grounds altogether. "It's pretty clear that the (US) Capitol itself is locked down about as tight as humanly possible," former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe said Sunday, adding it was hard to imagine a reprise of the Capitol riots taking place there in the next several days, given the security measures in place. "But," he added, "we have 50 state capitols around the country that are not nearly as protected as our national Capitol, and those are the places that I fear smaller pockets of this sort of violence could really flare up." Minnesota officials told CNN they would "continue to assess potential threats" to their state Capitol, though Bruce Gordon, spokesman for the Department of Public Safety, said there were no current credible threats.  Protests there were quiet Sunday, but Gordon said officials would "enhance" their response and "change tactics as needed" in the coming days.  Texas will keep its state Capitol and its grounds closed through Wednesday, officials said, adding they were aware of "violent extremists who may seek to exploit constitutionally protected events to conduct criminal acts." Columbia, South Carolina, officials have similarly advised residents to stay home and stay away from the city center.  "Unless there's a need, this weekend and certainly on Inauguration Day, to be downtown," Mayor Stephen Benjamin said, "I encourage you to stay home." Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan on Friday declared a state of emergency in connection with Biden's inauguration, allowing state officials to efficiently coordinate resources to help local jurisdictions and nearby states.  "The State of Maryland will continue to do everything we possibly can to secure our nation's capital," Hogan said, "and to ensure the peaceful transition of power." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

7 US Capitol Police officers recount being unprepared and 'betrayed' during siege
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_7ab67018feadc16a6a0941f430e9590a
(CNN) - The day before the US Capitol was attacked, Capitol Police officers were ordered to report to the department's equipment depot to pick up helmets, an officer who was there that day told CNN. They didn't know why they were needed, but when they arrived, they were told to return later. The helmets had yet to be scanned into inventory.  When officers finally secured helmets that Wednesday morning following roll call, they weren't given direction for use or storage. The helmets are heavy, and it wasn't clear they'd need them for the morning's protest. Some put them in their lockers, others kept them near their fixed posts.   By afternoon, the officers in the Capitol were in a fight for their lives and for the seat of American government. They were left to their own devices, outgunned, without adequate protective equipment, unaware of backup, enclosed by people, many with weapons, attempting to take over the government.    New details, provided by five US Capitol Police officers who spoke to CNN, provide a deeper look at how department leadership left its officers unprepared and how the police force charged with protecting Congress was overrun, leading to the most successful assault on the Capitol in more than 200 years.  The officers who spoke to CNN felt betrayed by leadership. They spoke about the day's events, their feelings and observations, on condition of anonymity, citing fear of losing their jobs and a retributive command staff. Minority officers were hit with racial slurs by people attacking the building.  And before the fight was over, officers were forced to shout that they were police to law enforcement responding to rescue the building after it was lost. They weren't put in a position to arrest the attackers, to defend themselves, or defend the Capitol. They weren't put in a position to succeed.   The US Capitol Police handle dozens of protests and demonstrations and events each year. They're as common "as stoplights in big cities," one officer said. They know how to plan, staff and work these events. They've handled mass arrest situations and they've kept the Capitol complex secure even after protesters crossed their lines -- such as when more than 70 people were arrested inside two Senate buildings during the first day of confirmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.   "There was no planning. No pre-planning. I just don't understand. For the life of me, why not have the same precautions as we did with other demonstrations?" one officer said. "Our management was completely ... nobody knew what the hell to do. Nobody was giving direction on what to do."   "I feel betrayed," another officer said. "They didn't even put us in a position to be successful."   Steven Sund, the US Capitol Police chief, resigned after the assault. The sergeants at arms for the House and Senate resigned after Sund. They account for two of the three-member board that oversees US Capitol Police. The third, the Capitol Architect, is not involved in tactical decisions and has not been ensnared by the scandal.  A retired general will lead an investigation into the security failures, Pelosi announced last week. What happened that day is now the subject of congressional and federal criminal investigations. A spokeswoman for US Capitol Police didn't respond to CNN's request for comment. Neither did the president of the labor union representing US Capitol Police officers.   Preparing for the day's events Officers knew of a protest, and they knew the President was speaking. They were not in an elevated posture of readiness and wore standard duty uniforms.   But the all-hands planning sessions that precede major events, used to brief front-line officers on all the contingencies -- where to send people in case of sudden need to evacuate, where to send people who need medical help -- never happened.  It wasn't that nobody had any sense things could go wrong. Days before the planned protest, Sund asked the sergeants at arms to activate the National Guard, a request they denied, Sund told CBS' "60 Minutes." His department's intelligence section also circulated a report warning for potential violence, according to a report in The Washington Post. Sund did not respond to CNN's repeated requests for comment for this story.  For some officers, it was the first time they were assigned helmets. Not every US Capitol Police officer is assigned riot gear that officers use in crowd or riot control settings, though items like helmets, face-shields, body-shields, batons, and protective padding are all standard kit for police in state-level and medium-to-large police departments.   "It started like a normal day. It shouldn't have started like a normal day," one officer told CNN. "The thing that struck me was getting messages from coworkers saying, 'How come the members keep saying watch your back, be careful, you guys watch your six?' They knew what was coming."   After the President spoke, a supervisor went on police radio to warn of protesters leaving Trump's speech and heading toward the Capitol.    "Here they go. There's a large number of Trump supporters, they're coming from the West. We need perimeter on the West," one officer recalled hearing.   At first, it was just a crowd. The officers who spoke to CNN said they expected the normal yelling, name-calling and occasional pushing against the bike-rack fencing that they've grown accustomed to from years of policing demonstrations.    "It started like any other demonstration, except it was a lot of damn people," one officer told CNN. "But when it went south, it went south in a hurry. There was not enough people to stop what was coming. What hurt us was, these people, they planned for it. They knew we weren't going to shoot. They knew they could get up on you and we're not going to shoot unarmed people."   As the crowd set upon the Capitol, police rushed the workers setting up the inauguration stage to safety. They evacuated in such a hurry that some left tools behind.  Before the violence, there was a call for a possible bomb. Someone showed pictures of the device to a police officer who used their radio to alert others, and police officers and the bomb squad had to respond. A few minutes later, they found another, and again more officers had to respond to create a perimeter and evacuate people.   Police can't be in two places at once, and the officers handling the bombs couldn't help at the Capitol. That's when the fighting started on the West front of the Capitol. Investigators later determined the bombs were real, though it's not clear why they didn't detonate.   "They start throwing tear gas. Gas grenades. Flashbangs. Shooting cherry bombs, rubber bullet type guns they were shooting us with," one officer said. "We have OC spray (another term for pepper spray) but we're pleading for help, send us help."   Some of the group had blunt objects to break windows and projectiles to throw at officers, including bricks, signs, fence posts, fire extinguishers, lumber and shields.   Some DC Metropolitan Police officers were already at the Capitol trying to hold a perimeter outside the building. They had been monitoring the group from the Ellipse, where Trump had spoken earlier.  "We were outnumbered as it was, but if MPD hadn't been there, they would have come right in," an officer said. "They slowed the advance."   The officers described the violence as methodical and escalating. Officers were coming off the line one at a time to decontaminate after getting sprayed or gassed. Gas lingered in the air. The spray used by attackers had longer range than the spray officers had, so those on the front lines weren't able to effectively use pepper spray against attackers.   Sometimes, small groups would pick an officer to fight, occupying the officer and any other officer who joined to help.   The breach of the first perimeter was fast, and police didn't have any real security barriers out. The bike-rack style fencing is used more as a guide to keep people from stumbling into restricted areas and they're light enough to be used as weapons by protesters if a protest turns violent.   "Finally, our less-than-lethal teams came out and we're deploying gas, flashbangs, fighting fire with fire. But they had masks, they were prepared. They had earpieces, they had radios. It's not a coincidence that once those bombs were found, they started to advance on us," an officer said.  There was a call for help at the West entrance to the Capitol, and the attackers watched the police shift resources, leaving the East front scarcely guarded.   A breach of the perimeter on the East entrance followed shortly after the West perimeter collapsed. Officers believe groups were communicating between the East and West fronts and coordinating the timing of their attacks on officers.   "They're methodical, lobbing cherry bombs, little bit of this and that," one officer said. "The people we were fighting. They had gas masks. They had earpieces. They had radios." "Look, when they busted through the bike racks and green fencing at the bottom of Pennsylvania Avenue, there was only like four people there. A woman, a supervisor, two other officers," an officer told CNN. "They busted through that. (The female officer) hit her head and had a concussion, she hasn't been back."   'You couldn't have arrested anybody' The officers who spoke to CNN, don't recall ever being made aware of plans to take back the Capitol. They remember hearing officers all over pleading for help, both in specific emergency situations and in general to formulate a plan to clear the building of the attackers. Neither recall being given orders about how or whether to arrest people.   Capitol police, once a decision is made to start mass arrests, will set up a square using bicycle rack fencing, surround it with officers and put arrestees in flex-cuffs and into the pen for holding until things calm down. Then, officers can each handle paperwork on a handful of arrestees.   That was not an option because, as the officer said, they were "getting their asses kicked."   "You couldn't have arrested anybody," one officer said. "You could not. We were surrounded. Normally in mass-arrest situation, they comply under arrest. But (the attackers had) already proven to us they wanted to beat our asses. No way arrests could have been affected at that moment. Just get these people out and survive."   Even if the officers wanted to go into the crowd to grab a single problem actor, their lines weren't sufficiently staffed to allow for a small squad of officers to wade in, grab someone and drag them back behind the line for arrest.   "Everyone was screaming for help," an officer said. "At that point, (officers) were just responding to '10-33' calls. Officer in trouble, needs help."  Once the attackers were on the rotunda steps and near the doors, people started climbing the walls. US Capitol Police don't normally staff the grounds outside those walls with more than a couple officers because they weren't seen as entrances, so the people climbing were able to break windows and get inside.   The officers at the doors didn't know people had already broken in behind them until someone went over the radio with that information, one officer told CNN.   "They're over the radio saying they've breached the doors, they've breached windows and got inside," one officer recalled. "They came in packs, and officers working inside are trying to lockdown areas where members may be, trying to get members to secret hideaways and tunnels where they'll be safe."   On scaffolding outside the Capitol, an officer climbed to try and arrest someone.   "You guys don't have the numbers," he told the police officer.   Sund told "60 Minutes" he requested the National Guard during the siege, and the office of the Secretary of the Army delayed the request, citing the poor visuals of soldiers protecting the Capitol.   "I don't like the optics of the National Guard standing the line with the Capitol behind them," is the answer Sund says he got from a representative of the secretary of the Army. The chief of the DC Metro Police Department has confirmed Sund's account to "60 Minutes." The Pentagon has denied Sund's optics claims and said guards were approved within about 40 minutes.  'We wouldn't have won.'  Once inside, officers were getting surrounded and encircled, fighting protesters, trying to beat people back. Flashbangs and gas were going off and officers weren't sure if it was police or protesters.   Lawmakers and staffers locked themselves in offices. At some point, one officer recalled the deputy chief (now chief) give an order over police radio to lockdown the Capitol. That means doors get secured with magnetic locks across the campus -- the Capitol and outlying office buildings. Members of congressional leadership were whisked away by officers who work dignitary protection.   Two men who walked into the Capitol after it had been breached told FBI agents that an officer, who appeared to respond out of fear, shook one of their hands and said, "It's your house now, man."   One officer was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher and later died. A woman climbing through a window inside the building leading to the Speaker's Lobby was shot by an officer, the only apparent use of deadly force by US Capitol Police that day.  One officer said he wouldn't have begrudged any officer for firing their gun, but they were outgunned. "I got 16 bullets in my handgun, 28 in my long gun. Then what?" he said.   "At that point, I wasn't looking for arms. But there were arrests with guns, a cooler of Molotov (cocktails was) found. We recovered 9 or 10 guns, found or taken off people. Guarantee so many more had 'em," he said. "You don't want to start a gunfight and have a bloodbath. We wouldn't have won."  "They knew they could get up on you without you shooting 'em," said another officer. "And there's so many. You could go hands on if you want, but there's too many people."   One officer saw two attackers flash law enforcement badges once inside. One said, "We're doing this for you, buddy."   An arrestee inside was freed after a group surrounded officers. He had already been cuffed, cleared for weapons and was on the ground when the group freed him, cuffs still on.   "(He) had that one guy cuffed thinking, OK, but there was no direction. What do you do? Who do you go to? there was no direction and the crowd snatched him from (the officer)," an officer told CNN. "What can you do? Gonna get into a gunfight over that guy?"   'I was just trying to survive.'  "The day ended when we got the reinforcements," one of the officers said. "But hours had gone by. It was a bad day."   The officers described reinforcements coming in, dozens at a time, in helmets and riot gear with rifles drawn. Police from DC, Fairfax County, Montgomery County, Prince George's County all mustered SWAT teams or other on-call officers to help secure the Capitol.    "You hear them going in and out of rooms and people are screaming 'blue, blue, blue,' so they know it's a friendly," one of the officers told CNN.   "I'm a Black officer. There was a lot of racism that day. I was called racial slurs, and in the moment, I didn't process this as traumatic," the other officer said, referring to racial epithets he received from some attackers. "I was just trying to survive. I just wanted to get home, to see my daughter again. I couldn't show weakness. I finally reached a safe place, surrounded by officers, I was able to cry. To let it out. To attempt to process it."   The next day, officers came to work bandaged and taped from the chaos the day before. The job of securing the capitol remains and there's an inauguration in a few days.   Others haven't returned, some with serious injuries like concussions.   About a week after the assault, the department's Internal Affairs section sent an email to officers asking to report colleagues for use of force that may have been outside Capitol Police policy. The officers who spoke to CNN found this offensive, considering the failures of planning and degree to which officers had to fight for the Capitol.   "I want to report the chief to (Internal Affairs) for getting one of our officers killed. I want to report command staff for keeping everything a fucking secret. Can I put that in a tip line? I don't care if an officer spit on one of those people," an officer said. "At that point they deserved everything they got and then some."   © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

8 Biden's Covid team is nervous about what the Trump team hasn't told them
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_107e59b51c614cdd6989115cb0cbd5ce
(CNN) - With the hours dwindling until Joe Biden is sworn in -- officially taking the helm of the US government during its worst health crisis in 100 years -- a sense of nervousness has set in among those advising the incoming President on the pandemic. The overarching, nagging concern: "They don't know what they don't know," said a source close to the Biden Covid-19 team.   Biden is set to inherit a nation grieving hundreds of thousands of Americans who have perished from the virus, a health care system buckling under the strain of the pandemic, new variants of the disease popping up around the world and a public that is both stressed about the prospect of when they can get vaccinated, as well as dubious about whether to trust the vaccine when it's their turn in line. Multiple officials familiar with the transition said the lack of full cooperation and transparency from the outgoing Trump administration has contributed to Biden's Covid team feeling frustrated and concerned about having a full understanding of the scope of the problems they will confront on Day One.  But the President-elect's team feels ready for the fight. "We're not going to hide from the fact that is going to be a tremendous effort that is going to require the hard work of millions of Americans," said Rep. Bill Foster, an Illinois Democrat on the House coronavirus subcommittee who has participated in briefings with Biden's transition team and was describing their posture coming into office. "It's not going to be some magical solution." The President-elect understands just how much the success of his presidency will depend on his ability to get the virus under control, the source close to Biden's Covid operation said. The President-elect is anxious and focused on the pandemic right now, which looms large over Wednesday's inauguration.   Chief among the Biden team's concerns right now is vaccine supply and turning around the lackluster distribution effort, though new strains of the virus are another persistent worry for the incoming team.    One source familiar with the Biden effort acknowledged a major gap the incoming team will have to confront is that there is currently no effective and trustworthy line of communication between states and the federal government. Ramping up federal involvement in coronavirus testing and vaccine distribution starts with building up communications with each state to better understand their infrastructure and supply challenges, something that's expected to be a focus in the early days of Biden's presidency. States are clamoring for the federal government to release larger batches of vaccine. But it's still not clear if there will be enough vaccine available to drastically speed up the pace at which they can be distributed and administered. While there is optimism that additional vaccines will be soon approved for use in the United States, including the potential of a single dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine, there are questions about whether it can be produced fast enough to significantly address any potential supply problems.  Foster, the Illinois congressman, said getting information from the Trump administration on delivery schedules and production progress for vaccines "has been like pulling teeth." "And I understand the frustration of the Biden (team), if they were seeing the same sort of resistance we saw, on not what was contracted and promised but what the actual milestones in the vaccine production are along the way," he added.   Outgoing health officials in the Trump administration, meanwhile, insist they have been cooperative with the Biden team and have had hundreds of meetings with Biden's transition team.   Still, the Biden team likely won't get a full scope of the vaccine production landscape until he takes office Wednesday. The President-elect's team has expressed concerns about trying to get a grasp on exactly how the vaccine distribution is playing out -- and what's slowing it down -- across all 50 states. Even though Biden's team is fully aware they can't federalize the vaccine distribution process with the snap of a finger, the President-elect has vowed that the federal government will play a much more aggressive role in streamlining the vaccine distribution and Covid containment efforts. But even when it comes to some signature promises -- like deploying the National Guard to run vaccination sites -- it will most likely fall to each state to determine what works best for them. New variants of the coronavirus could prove to be another vexing problem for the incoming administration. The worst-case scenario for Biden's team would a variant that cannot be treated by currently approved vaccines. But America's inferior screening systems for monitoring new strains of the virus, combined with the fraught relationship with the outgoing Trump administration, adds emerging variants to the thorny list of problems a Biden administration won't be able to fully tackle until he takes office. Containing any new variant of the disease played into the Biden team's decision to immediately throw cold water on President Donald Trump's order lifting some travel restrictions on incoming travelers from much of Europe, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Brazil. While the outgoing President ordered those restrictions to be lifted on January 26 -- nearly a week after Biden takes office -- Biden's team said the President-elect would block the order once he's in office. "With the pandemic worsening, and more contagious variants emerging around the world, this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel," incoming White House press secretary Jen Psaki tweeted Monday. "In fact, we plan to strengthen public health measures around international travel in order to further mitigate the spread of COVID-19." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

9 How Trump will hand off the 'nuclear football' to Biden
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_9460332380b12986dd7c685f988dc6b6
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump will not be in attendance Wednesday to watch as his successor Joe Biden is sworn into office but his absence will have little impact on what may be one of the most important moments of Inauguration Day, the handing off of the "nuclear football." The "football," which contains the equipment that Trump would use to authenticate his orders and launch a nuclear strike, is carried by a military aide who accompanies the President at all times -- up to the second he officially leaves office on January 20.  Typically, the football would be handed off to another military aide standing on or nearby the inauguration viewing stand as Biden takes his oath of office.  But on Wednesday, that exchange will happen a bit differently as Trump is currently expected to depart Washington, DC, for Florida before Biden's inauguration ceremony. The nuclear football will likely travel with him, experts say, meaning there will be at least two briefcases in different locations, presenting a unique challenge of ensuring the transfer of authority goes smoothly. While that process may play out slightly differently than it has in years past, there are safeguards in place to ensure a seamless transition of nuclear control from one president to the next, regardless of circumstance, according to Stephen Schwartz, a nonresident senior fellow at the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Handing off the 'football'  Contrary to popular belief, the nuclear football does not contain a button or codes that can automatically launch a nuclear weapon but instead has the equipment and authorities that Trump would use to order a strike.  "There are at least three to four identical 'footballs': one follows the president, one follows the vice president, and one traditionally is set aside for the designated survivor at events like inaugurations and State of the Union addresses," according to Schwartz.. "On January 20, [the extra footballs] will be out of town somewhere with their designees, leaving just [Vice President Mike] Pence's briefcase unless the White House Military Office has prepared (or already has on hand) another backup for Biden," he told CNN. Additionally, the President is required to carry a plastic card known as the "biscuit" with them at all times. The biscuit contains alphanumeric codes that are used to positively identify the president, who maintains the sole, legal authority to authorize a nuclear launch.   The reason is explicitly laid out in the Constitution, which gives Trump complete authority over the US nuclear arsenal up to the very second Biden is sworn in at noon on Wednesday. "Under the 20th Amendment -- and absent any invocation of the 25th Amendment that would make Mike Pence the acting president -- Donald Trump is president through 11:59:59 am on January 20. Up to that point in time, he has the sole, legal authority to authorize the use of any or all of the US nuclear arsenal," Schwartz said.  "If an aide with the football accompanies Trump on Air Force One to Florida, that aide will remove himself or herself from Trump's presence at noon and return to Washington, DC, with the briefcase," Schwartz added.  Transfer of authority  After that point, Trump will no longer have such authority and the nuclear codes he carries will automatically be deactivated, he added. Meanwhile, Biden will automatically inherit the power to launch a nuclear strike at exactly the same time.  That means if Trump attempted to order a strike at 12:01 pm on Wednesday, the order would be considered illegal and military commanders tasked with carrying out the launch are obligated to refuse.  The transition of that authority is ensured by the fact that the codes Trump would use to authenticate his identity as President will become invalid at that time. Meanwhile, Biden will likely receive his "biscuit" on Wednesday morning when he, and likely Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, are briefed on the process of initiating a nuclear strike.  But their codes will not become active until noon on Wednesday. Earlier this month, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told House Democrats in a letter that she spoke with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley to discuss Trump's access to the nuclear codes amid calls for the President to be removed from office after a violent pro-Trump mob stormed the US Capitol. "This morning, I spoke to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley to discuss available precautions for preventing an unstable president from initiating military hostilities or accessing the launch codes and ordering a nuclear strike," Pelosi wrote in a letter. "The situation of this unhinged President could not be more dangerous, and we must do everything that we can to protect the American people from his unbalanced assault on our country and our democracy." After speaking with Milley, Pelosi told her caucus that she has gotten assurances there are safeguards in place in the event Trump wants to launch a nuclear weapon, according to multiple sources on a caucus call. Senior military officials say while the President has sole authority to launch nuclear weapons he cannot do it alone. If an adversary were to launch a missile at the US, the president would immediately be on a classified communication network, receiving minute-by-minute intelligence and recommendations on how to proceed. There are safeguards against illegal attack orders whether its nuclear or conventional. To be legal, orders must have a legitimate target, a clear military objective and use proportional forces. The general who recently commanded strategic weapons and is now number two at the Pentagon is adamant the military will not follow illegal orders from any president. "If it's illegal, guess what's going to happen? I'm going to say, 'Mr. President, that's illegal.' And guess what he's going to do? He's going to say, 'What would be legal?' And we'll come up with options, with a mix of capabilities to respond to whatever the situation is, and that's the way it works. It's not that complicated," Gen. John Hyten, the former commander of US Strategic Command, said in 2017.  If a president persists in pushing illegal orders, a military commander would have no option but to resign. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

10 Washington Post: FBI warns QAnon members talked posing as National Guard members to infiltrate inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_457191597887517089518215302ab436
(CNN) - The FBI on Monday alerted other law enforcement agencies that QAnon adherents discussed acting as National Guard soldiers in Washington to try and infiltrate President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, according to The Washington Post.  The FBI, in an intelligence report obtained by the Post, said it monitored individuals downloading maps of sensitive areas around Washington and talking about how those locations could be utilized to penetrate security, the Post reported. The intelligence report warned that QAnon members and "lone wolves" indicated they plan to travel to Washington for Biden's swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday, the Post said.  "But the intelligence briefing did not identify any specific plots to attack the inaugural events" that would be similar to the January 6 insurrection on the US Capitol, which some QAnon members participated in, the Post said. The FBI noted that it detected "suspicious traffic" on the communication systems used by some participants in the January 6 Capitol attack -- but "nothing that points to any specific action," according to the Post. The newspaper said the FBI declined to "characterize the credibility or gravity of the threats it outlined" in its briefing report. The agency pointed the Post to comments made by FBI Director Christopher Wray last week, in which he said the FBI is seeing "extensive" chatter surrounding the inauguration and said "one of the real challenges in this space is trying to distinguish what is aspirational and what is potential." "We're monitoring all incoming leads -- whether calls for armed protests, potential threats that grow out of the January 6th breach of the Capitol or other kinds of potential threats leading up to Inaugural events and various other targets," Wray said. The Secret Service also declined to comment to the Post about the FBI's threat report, but told the newspaper that it "takes all threats seriously and will continue to work with our federal, state, local and military partners to continue securing the 59th Inauguration based on the relevant intelligence available to the security community." CNN previously reported that the FBI is vetting the thousands of National Guard troops providing security at the inauguration ahead of their arrival in Washington in order to prevent any insider threats, and the US Army is working with the Secret Service to determine if there are soldiers who require additional background screening. Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller said Monday that there is "no intelligence indicating an insider threat" to Biden's inauguration, adding, "we are leaving no stone unturned in securing the capital." "The DC National Guard is also providing additional training to service members as they arrive in D.C. that if they see or hear something that is not appropriate, they should report it to their chain of command," Miller said in his statement Monday. In the wake of the Capitol insurrection earlier this month, there has been a massive security presence in Washington for Biden's inauguration, with more than 20,000 National Guard troops expected in the city to help secure the event. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

11 Harris resigns from the Senate ahead of inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_82beb05c66e5b687c55d48020bcb0ebb
(CNN) - Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has formally submitted a letter of resignation for her US Senate seat to California Gov. Gavin Newsom, ending her four-year career in the chamber. As Harris says goodbye to her seat, she assured Americans in an op-ed for the San Francisco Chronicle that her work is not done since she will preside over the chamber once she is sworn as the first female, first Black and first South Asian woman vice president of the United States on Wednesday. "And this is not goodbye. As I resign from the Senate, I am preparing to take an oath that would have me preside over it," Harris wrote. "As senator-turned-Vice-President Walter Mondale once pointed out, the vice presidency is the only office in our government that 'belongs to both the executive branch and the legislative branch.' A responsibility made greater with an equal number of Democrats and Republicans in the Senate." Harris continued that while she will use her power as tie breaker in the Senate, she hopes she does not have to. "Since our nation's founding, only 268 tie-breaking votes have been cast by a Vice President. I intend to work tirelessly as your Vice President, including, if necessary, fulfilling this Constitutional duty," she wrote. "At the same time, it is my hope that rather than come to the point of a tie, the Senate will instead find common ground and do the work of the American people." Harris, who was also the first Black woman to serve as a senator for the Golden State, won her seat in November 2016 and was sworn in January 2017. At the time, Harris was California's attorney general.  Newsom has named Alex Padilla, California's secretary of state, to fill Harris' seat. The incoming vice president has spoken to Padilla before he is sworn into the Senate, according to a person with knowledge of the discussion. She also addressed the deadly insurrection at the US Capitol, saying that America has "two systems of justice -- one that failed to restrain the rioters on January 6 and another that released tear gas on non-violent demonstrators last summer." Noting the elections of Senators-elect Rev. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, Democrats from Georgia to the Senate, Harris wrote "Change is possible. For that, I am grateful and ready to get to work." This story has been updated with additional information.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

12 A nation on edge braces for this week's transfer of power
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_9245b8395a27acc536f2e5543ee60826
(CNN) - The nation is entering inauguration week with an unnerving police and military presence guarding the vestiges of democracy -- with Americans holding their breath as federal officials warn about threats of violence and potential unrest fueled by President Donald Trump's corrosive and dangerous lies that the election was stolen from him.   Normally the inauguration of a president is a joyful event that brings thousands of people to Washington to celebrate. But with authorities determined to stave off the terrifying scene that unfolded during the violent insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6, Washington, DC -- once the crown jewel of democracy admired around the world -- now resembles a police state as authorities try to ensure a peaceful transfer of power when President-elect Joe Biden takes the oath of office on Wednesday. Some 25,000 National Guard troops have been deployed, military vehicles are blocking some of DC's streets, the National Mall is closed, and tall fences and barricades protect this country's sacred buildings as movement is restricted. Deep within the fortressed capital city, Trump remained out of public view during his last weekend in power -- unrepentant for the violence he incited and unwilling to abandon the false election claims that have riled up his supporters. In that absence of leadership, Biden tried to get Americans focused on a more hopeful future as his team outlined the first steps he will take in office to try to aid struggling Americans amid the pandemic and fulfill campaign promises on issues like climate change, criminal justice and immigration. But with fewer than four days left in the Trump presidency, the nation remains on edge. In another unsettling sign of the potential threats posed by homemade bombs or explosives -- like the ones planted outside the Republican and Democratic party headquarters earlier this month that didn't go off -- the US Postal Service has removed blue mail collection boxes from certain jurisdictions in 18 states as a security precaution. With America forced into that security state by the actions of a careless and autocratic commander in chief, Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin, the lead impeachment manager in the House, argued Sunday morning that Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate should convict the President in the upcoming impeachment trial to make it clear that there are consequences for his actions that led to the siege at the Capitol.  "I don't think anybody would seriously argue that we should establish a precedent, where every president on the way out the door has two weeks, or three weeks, or four weeks, to try to incite an armed insurrection against the union or organize a coup against the union — and if it succeeds, he becomes a dictator and if it fails, he's not subject to impeachment or conviction, because we just want to let bygones be bygones," the Maryland Democrat told CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union." "This was the most serious presidential crime in the history of the United States of America. The most dangerous crime by a president ever committed against the United States, and there are Republicans who are recognizing it, as well as Democrats."  Though Democrats have argued that the President presents a "clear and present danger" to the nation, Raskin said he did not know when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi would transfer the article of impeachment to the Senate, which has been out of session.  Biden has said that impeachment will be up to Congress and he has declined to offer his opinion about the upcoming trial in the Senate. But his incoming chief of staff Ron Klain told Tapper on Sunday that it is clear that Trump "did incite this mob on January 6" and Biden officials remain concerned about the broader threats surrounding this week's ceremonies -- even though they believe that the Secret Service, with assistance from the National Guard, will "keep the inauguration itself safe."  Klain noted that Biden decided to run for president after hearing Trump's remarks following the demonstrations by White supremacists in Charlottesville and the murder of 32-year-old paralegal Heather Heyer, who was part of a group of counter-protesters opposing the presence of the alt-right groups that day. "The events of the past few weeks have proven out just how damaged the soul of America has been, and how important it is to restore it. That work starts on Wednesday," Klain said.  In these final days of the Trump presidency, the National Guard presence in Washington is a stronger military footprint than the US has in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria combined -- a scenario that would have once seemed unthinkable in the nation's seat of democracy. But Maryland Sen. Chris Van Hollen said Saturday the added security was "necessary and warranted."   "This is as if we were under attack from a foreign enemy," Van Hollen told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room." "What's so sad about it is that it's an attack on our democracy from within, instigated by the President of the United States."  Many state capitols are also ramping up security to avoid being caught flat-footed as US Capitol Police were on January 6. With the FBI warning last week that "armed protests" are being planned in all 50 states, Michigan State Police, for example, have mobilized personnel from across the state to secure the state Capitol in Lansing in coordination with the FBI and the National Guard.  Michigan, in particular, is familiar with the threats posed by armed protesters, who gathered last spring to demonstrate against restrictions related to Covid-19. With demonstrations expected Sunday, a fence has been erected around the state Capitol, and Lansing Mayor Andy Schor asked Michiganders to stay out of the downtown area and avoid engaging "with demonstrators who come to our city with ill intentions."  The Michigan House and Senate have canceled sessions Tuesday through Thursday because of "credible threats." And Airbnb is also reviewing reservations booked around Lansing during inauguration week, saying they will cancel reservations booked by guests associated with violent hate groups.   Trump's final days  Unwilling to take responsibility for the fear that has rippled across the nation after watching the January 6 attacks, Trump remained out of sight at the White House this weekend -- still stripped of the ability to communicate with his followers via major social media channels like Facebook and Twitter.  But in what appeared to be another overtly political move at the 11th hour, his administration tried install a Trump loyalist as the top lawyer at the National Security Agency -- a civil servant job, not a political appointment -- who would be harder to fire after Biden takes office, sources told CNN.  Eschewing the customary handoff between presidents on Inauguration Day, Trump plans to head to Palm Beach, Florida, hours before Biden takes the oath of office. But Trump remains keenly interested in how he will be celebrated when he leaves the White House for the last time, contemplating a departure ceremony that could include a red carpet, a color guard, a military band and even a 21-gun salute, an administration official told CNN's Jim Acosta.  Trump is also preoccupied in these final days with building a legal team to defend him during his upcoming impeachment trial, as a number of high-profile advisers who defended him the last time he faced a Senate trial make it clear they are not interested in this second round.  Though the President's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani was seen Saturday at the White House, a Trump campaign spokesman Hogan Gidley tweeted that the President has not yet selected the team that will represent him "for the disgraceful attack on our Constitution and democracy, known as the 'impeachment hoax.'" The President is leaving office with the lowest approval rating of his presidency (34%), according to a new CNN Poll conducted by SSRS, and 54% of Americans say he should be removed from office because of his role inciting violence at the Capitol on January 6.  The President has resisted calls from his aides to give a final speech recounting the accomplishments of the administration. Instead, Pence -- who will be attending Biden's inauguration -- continues to be the public-facing leader of the administration, traveling to Naval Air Station Lemoore in California on Saturday to give a speech touting the administration's national security achievements.  "The American people are grateful," Pence told sailors as he thanked them for their service on behalf of the Trump administration. "And I want to assure you that you have our deepest respects for the selflessness and courage that you personify every day." The vice president argued that the military is now "more equipped than ever" and added -- with no irony, even though parts of the nation are currently locked down under heavy guard -- that he was "proud to say, with just a few days left in this administration, this is the first administration in decades not to get America into a new war." Biden readies first-day executive actions While it has been hard for Biden to capture the nation's attention after the security breach at the Capitol, Klain penned a memo detailing the executive actions Biden would take on his first day of office to reverse some of the policies of the Trump administration, including rejoining the Paris climate accord and rescinding the ban on travel from predominantly Muslim countries.  Biden also rolled out his first signature legislative initiative this past week when he announced his $1.9 trillion relief package to mitigate the economic damage wrought by the coronavirus pandemic and expand and accelerate the delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine across the United States.  But Biden's advisers are concerned that the Senate's focus on impeachment could draw the Senate's attention away from critical tasks like confirming members of the President-elect's national security team and his Cabinet.  "It's important for the Senate to do its constitutional duty, but also to do its constitutional duty to move forward on these appointments -- on the urgent action the country needs," Klain told Tapper Sunday, noting that the Senate was able to conduct confirmation hearings for nominees during its morning sessions while Trump's previous impeachment trial was underway. "I hope that the Senate leaders, on a bipartisan basis, find a way to move forward on all their responsibilities." Klain's memo about Biden's upcoming executive actions said the President-elect would sign orders halting evictions and giving relief from student loan payments to those struggling financially because of the coronavirus pandemic. Biden also plans to institute a mask mandate at federal sites and for travel between states. The President-elect has challenged Americans to mask up in his first 100 days in office.   Biden also plans to introduce an immigration plan within his first 100 days that would include a pathway to citizenship for many undocumented immigrants living in the United States. In late January and early February, he also intends to ask the federal government to devise a system for reuniting children separated from their families at the US-Mexico border and will focus on moving criminal justice reform.  On Sunday, Klain highlighted Biden's plans to streamline the nation's slow and lurching system for administering the Covid-19 vaccines by speeding up delivery, ensuring an adequate supply of second doses for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, and by using the Defense Production Act to, for example, produce syringes that would allow health workers to extract six doses from each vial, instead of five, thereby increasing the vaccine supply by 20%.   "We're inheriting a huge mess here," Klain told Tapper. "But we have a plan to fix it."  This story has been updated with additional details Sunday. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

13 In a last-minute move, NSA installing Trump loyalist as general counsel
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_25dd9a38f9c12bc9475fc4abe999628c
(CNN) - The National Security Agency said Sunday it was installing Trump National Security Council staffer Michael Ellis as its general counsel, after acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller ordered NSA Director Gen. Paul Nakasone to place the Trump loyalist into the role. "Mr. Ellis accepted his final job offer yesterday afternoon. NSA is moving forward with his employment," an NSA spokesperson said in a statement. Ellis will start in his new role on Tuesday, according to a source familiar. Ellis, who was a lawyer for the NSC, had been named to the position in November, but the NSA had yet to move him into the role. The Washington Post and CNN reported Saturday that Miller, who was installed as acting defense secretary as part of a purge of agencies after the election, had ordered Nakasone to install him into the position, giving him a Saturday evening deadline. "The General Counsel of the Department of Defense is the sole selection authority for the position of General Counsel of the National Security Agency - as well as all other senior career DoD General Counsel positions," according to a statement from the Department of Defense. "The Director of the NSA does not select or approve of candidates for the position of the NSA General Counsel." The move is significant because the role of general counsel at the country's largest intelligence agency is a civil service position, not a political role, meaning it could be difficult for the Biden administration to remove Ellis. The strategy of trying to install political loyalists into career positions is known as "burrowing" in the government. The Pentagon declined to comment Saturday when news of the deadline broke. Within days of Ellis being picked for the job in November, which came shortly after President Donald Trump fired then-Defense Secretary Mark Esper via Twitter, Democratic Sens. Mark Warner and Jack Reed requested an investigation from the Pentagon's acting inspector general, saying in a letter, "The combination of timing, comparative lack of experience of the candidate, the reported qualifications of the other finalists, and press accounts of White House involvement create a perception that political influence or considerations may have played an undue role in a merit-based civil service selection process."  Before joining the Trump administration, Ellis served as the head counsel to California Rep. Devin Nunes, one of Trump's staunchest supporters. Ellis then became a lawyer with the NSC, refusing to testify as part of the House's 2019 impeachment inquiry. In March 2020, Ellis became the senior director for intelligence on the NSC, joining other Trump loyalists in key intelligence positions.   When reached by The Washington Post on Saturday, Ellis said: "I don't talk to the press, thank you," and hung up. CNN has been unable to reach Ellis for comment.  Susan Hennessey, a former NSA attorney and CNN legal and national security analyst, ripped the decision to install Ellis in the Trump administration's last weekend in power. "At this point, no one should extend this selection process the benefit of the doubt. By all indication, the Trump admin is violating civil service rules and politicizing an apolitical role. If Ellis is installed tonight, Biden should remove him on Day One," she wrote on Twitter. The general counsel of the NSA is not a Senate-confirmed position, Hennessey explained on her Lawfare blog, which removes a step of Congressional oversight that exists for roles such as general counsel of the CIA, Pentagon, or Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The goal of this process was to remove any political bias in appointing a candidate to one of the key roles at the NSA. "This is a really difficult, really important job and we have a process to ensure only qualified individuals are in the role *BECAUSE* it is necessary to the national security of the United States," Hennessey wrote on Twitter. This story has been updated with a statement from the Defense Department. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

14 Biden on track to take office without key Cabinet roles in place
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_91768fb5a7acd6a9a2d4f2311a4a9d0b
(CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is on track to take office without key Cabinet members being confirmed on the day of his inauguration, a result of the Republican-led Senate moving much more slowly to schedule confirmation hearings and votes than it has for previous presidents.  The timeline for confirming Biden's Cabinet nominees could accelerate when Democrats take control of the Senate in the coming days. But Republicans, amid the coronavirus pandemic and the Capitol riots, have been slow to schedule confirmation hearings.  The first set of hearings is scheduled to take place January 19 -- days and in some cases weeks after those hearings have begun in recent transitions -- with no dates for confirmation set. The latest delay came when the Senate Intelligence Committee postponed what would have been the first confirmation hearing for a Biden nominee, moving from Friday until next Tuesday the hearing for Biden's pick to be the next director of national intelligence, Avril Haines.  That makes next Tuesday -- the day before Biden's inauguration -- one jam-packed with confirmation hearings, with Biden's nominees to helm the defense, homeland security, state and treasury departments all scheduled to take place.  The proximity to Biden's inauguration makes it unlikely Biden administration confirmations will proceed at the same pace as his predecessors in recent decades, with all new presidents in the last 30 years seeing at least some Cabinet nominees confirmed on the days of their inauguration.  The early days of Biden's administration will see a collision in Congress of the Senate's trial of outgoing President Donald Trump, the process of confirming Biden's nominees and talks over Biden's proposed $1.9 trillion coronavirus vaccine and economic stimulus proposal.  With Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer set to replace Republican Mitch McConnell as Senate majority leader following Biden's swearing-in and the swearing-in of two Georgia Democrats who won runoffs there this month -- making Vice President-elect Kamala Harris the tie-breaking vote in a Senate split 50-50 -- the confirmation schedule could accelerate.  Biden officials are pressing for the Senate to operate on multiple tracks at once, holding confirmation hearings during Trump's impeachment trial. In a briefing with reporters Friday evening, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki pointed to Trump's first impeachment, noting that the Senate held unrelated hearings during that trial.   "Our expectation and hope and belief is that we can walk and chew gum at the same time," Psaki said. "We are urging fast action on getting these nominees into place ... as close to day one as possible." Biden's transition team made a push this week to get confirmation hearings for national security posts onto Senate committees' schedule.  Biden spokesman Andrew Bates said in a statement Friday that while hearings for key posts have since been scheduled, "the American people deserve assurances that swift floor votes will follow." "Progress towards confirmations still lags significantly behind where it was at this point during the last two presidential transitions, and it is essential that key national security and economic leaders are confirmed and in place on day one. And the Senate held hearings throughout last year's impeachment proceedings." Experts said that with Biden facing immediate challenges combating the coronavirus pandemic and its economic fallout, as well as facing national security threats following the January 6 riot at the Capitol, getting his agency heads in place quickly is crucial.  "There's never been a more important time to get confirmed nominees in place because we're dealing with an economic crisis, a health crisis and a political crisis," said David Marchick, the director of the non-profit Center for Presidential Transition at the Partnership for Public Service.  Anticipating a delay in confirmation votes, Biden's transition team is identifying officials across the government to serve as acting secretaries to oversee what he hopes is a seamless transition of power, people familiar with the matter said.  David Norquist, the current deputy defense secretary, is being asked to run the Pentagon until Biden's new team is in place, the sources said. He will remain in place until the confirmation of Lloyd Austin, the retired general whose nomination requires a waiver from the House and Senate because he has not been away from the military for the required seven years. In the coming days, Biden aides say, other officials will be named in key agencies like the Department of Homeland Security, State Department and Justice Department. Biden has also moved more quickly than his predecessors in recent decades in filling White House roles and department positions that don't require Senate confirmation -- which means that many of his selections can begin their work on January 20, even if Cabinet nominees are delayed.  "We need to move quickly to get the right people in these agencies and to make sure that we're keeping this country safe and we're ready for whatever threats might come," Biden's incoming chief of staff, Ron Klain, said in a live interview with The Washington Post on Friday. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

15 Opinion: Biden's ambitious 100-day plan to erase Trump's legacy
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_76d608806cb662bc270d2945d14c7fba
Editor's Note: Julian Zelizer, a CNN political analyst, is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and author of the book, "Burning Down the House: Newt Gingrich, the Fall of a Speaker, and the Rise of the New Republican Party." Follow him on Twitter @julianzelizer. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is trying to get out of the gate running. Even before his Jan. 20 inauguration, Biden has announced a $1.9. trillion stimulus plan, a massive list of executive orders that will undo President Donald Trump's most controversial decisions, and an immigration reform proposal to provide a path to citizenship for 11 million people. Whereas Trump was most interested in building a wall, Biden hopes to build new communities of citizens.    With Washington, DC in a state of military lockdown, the pandemic surging throughout the states, and a Senate impeachment trial looming, the President-elect is wasting no time.     As a veteran of national politics, Biden understands that the most valuable commodity for any new President is time. His sense of urgency is reminiscent of another highly experienced President with a deep resume on the Hill: Lyndon B. Johnson.    Upon taking over the presidency in November 1963 following the tragic assassination of John F. Kennedy, Johnson mapped out a schedule to his closest advisers, including Bill Moyers, to impress upon them just how quickly their window for making progress would be open. Johnson clutched a notepad with a truncated scheduling filled with handwritten columns of months going from November until 1968. Johnson's message was that he had about a year and a half before the politics of the midterms kicked in and his chances for legislating started to dwindle. "Bill, I've just been figuring out how much time we would have to do what we want to do," Moyers recalled Johnson saying. "I really intend to finish Franklin Roosevelt's revolution . . . In an ideal world . . . we would have about 110 months to his 144 months . . .  I'll never make it that far, of course, so let's assume that we have to do it all in 1965 and 1966, and probably in 1966 we'll lose our big margin in Congress. That means in 1967 and 1968 there will be a hell of a fight."    Biden hopes to convey the same message at a moment of even greater urgency. Even with many Democrats wondering how he will make any progress as the Senate deals with the articles of impeachment and Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell relies on the filibuster to obstruct, the President-elect won't be locked down.    Biden's goal is to reverse the damage that Democrats believe has been inflicted by Trump. Through executive action, he plans to end the travel ban on several predominantly Muslim countries and rejoin the Paris climate accord on his first day in office. He will also do what Trump refused to do to fight the pandemic, including a mask mandate on federal property and interstate travel and working to reunite families separated at the US-Mexico border. Biden's stimulus plan would provide the kind of economic assistance to states and localities, $350 billion worth, that Republicans have blocked and move toward a bold immigration plan that undoes the era of restrictionism.    Unlike some other famous first 100 days, like FDR in 1933, Biden's plan primarily aims to reverse the direction of policy under his predecessor and stabilize society from the pandemic rather than setting out on a fundamentally new path that remakes public policy. Nonetheless, given the circumstances, the plan is extremely ambitious.    Besides executive orders and legislation, the biggest issue in the coming months is an implementation issue. There Biden has also shown he will not be passive. His incoming administration has promised to vaccinate 100 million people in 100 days. He is working to open new vaccine centers and has said he will use the Defense Production Act to ramp up the distribution of shots.   If Biden works on getting this agenda going, the Senate impeachment trial of Trump would not stifle Biden's first 100 days. With the Senate doing the heavy lifting, the trial and the vote will allow Democrats to achieve some measure of accountability. There is even some chance that a sufficient number of Republicans could break toward conviction.     The strategy won't be easy. Biden will inevitably come under fire for using the same kind of executive action that Trump was criticized for using. Though Republicans have lost control of the Senate, Senator Mitch McConnell still holds immense power if his caucus remains united and the Democrats don't abandon the filibuster. The fury and anger of Trump's loyal base, part of the GOP, will loom large. And Biden must lead in a world where the conservative media continues to pump out conspiracy theories and smears as he moves forward.    But Biden's effort to start fresh could work. The nation might be in crisis, but he won't act like a trapped President. The most important power of the President in the early days is to set the agenda -- to lay out the issues that will be debated and to push Congress toward the issues that he wants examined.     While President Gerald Ford tried to end "our long national nightmare" by pardoning President Richard Nixon for crimes that he might have committed, Biden is taking a different path. He is trying to reset the policy agenda, to lift us out of our national lockdown and move back to the period when we had ambitions to make this a more welcoming and engaged nation, one working to curb climate change, to open improved world markets and to get us out of the world that Covid-19 has created. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

16 Analysis: What does Biden's diverse Cabinet mean for a divided country
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_5cc5764d6c1487614ea27a5fe29a538f
(CNN) - When President-elect Joe Biden takes office on January 20, he will inherit a nation that is divided.  Americans are demanding leaders atone for the forces of White supremacy that motivated a mob to storm the US Capitol on January 6 in its refusal to accept President Donald Trump's loss. And people of color, despite their rising political power, have been among the communities hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and other disparities.  Biden has achieved a historic feat that observers hope will help begin the process of repairing a broken country. The President-elect has the most racially diverse presidential Cabinet in the history of the US.  A CNN analysis found that 50% of nominees for Cabinet positions and Cabinet-level positions are people of color. That figure includes Vice President-elect Kamala Harris who will be the first Black and South Asian person and first woman to hold the position. Former President Barack Obama set the previous record for diversity with a Cabinet that was 42% people of color.   Civil rights leaders have praised Biden for keeping his promise of creating a Cabinet that better reflects the country's changing demographics. However, this is only the first step and they are cautiously optimistic.   Biden's administration will be expected to enact policies that lead to substantive change for communities of color. The Cabinet will be judged on whether it can end the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure vaccine access to underserved communities, support voting rights legislation, revive the economy, push police reform that addresses the fact that Black people are killed by police at higher rates, and reverse Trump's anti-immigration policies. Civil rights activists will also be looking for Biden to consider people of color for deputy roles in the Cabinet as well as judges and US attorneys.  "We believe that Biden's Cabinet appointments are just the starting point for a slate of demands that Black people and other people of color have," said Arisha Hatch, vice president of Color of Change. "For us, diversity is just table stakes. It's like the baseline thing that needs to happen."  Diversity on a 'new level' Biden will be turning the tide of a majority White and male Trump administration that was only 16% people of color. Trump garnered criticism for the lack of diversity in his Cabinet and his failure to address issues of concern to communities of color. Throughout Trump's presidency, he used offensive rhetoric to target Muslims, Mexicans, Syrian refugees, Africans, congresswomen of color, and Black athletes protesting racial inequality.  During an impeachment hearing for Trump on Wednesday, Rep. Cori Bush, a freshman Democrat from Missouri, called Trump a White supremacist.  "If we fail to remove a White supremacist President who incited a White supremacist insurrection, it's communities like Missouri's first district that suffer the most," Bush said during her speech. "The 117th Congress must understand that we have a mandate to legislate in defense of Black lives. The first step in that process is to root out White supremacy starting with impeaching the White supremacist in chief." A 2019 study by the Pew Research Center found that 56% of Americans believed that Trump made race relations worse in the US.  The country experienced a reckoning on racism last summer when mass protests erupted after the controversial police killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other Black Americans. Covid-19 exacerbated already existing health disparities as people of color have died from the virus at higher rates than White people.  Inequality has now become a central focus for this country and many social justice advocates are looking for Biden to right the wrongs of the Trump administration. In December, lawmakers and civil rights groups pressured Biden to appoint Black, Latino and Asian nominees to his Cabinet, citing the nation's heightened alert on race and justice. Douglas Brinkley, a CNN presidential historian, said Biden's diverse Cabinet is taking the White House to a "new level" that past presidents haven't been able to accomplish.  Former President Bill Clinton, Brinkley said, attempted to create a diverse Cabinet when he chose four Black and two Hispanic department heads. Still, Clinton came under fire for passing the 1994 Crime Bill, which strengthened law enforcement across the country, provided federal money for new cops and prisons, and ordered mandatory life sentences for repeat offenders. Critics say the bill led to mass incarceration of Black people. Biden, who authored the bill, has defended aspects of it while also calling it a "mistake" and blaming its negative impacts on state governments.  Brinkley said Biden and his Cabinet have an opportunity to disprove critics who say Democrats rely on voters of color but don't meet their expectations. "This is coming at a time when the Republican party seems to be doubling down on being the party of White Americans only," Brinkley said. "There's a feeling here of a last gasp of particularly White male privilege going on here and Biden is trying to shatter that impression of America by making sure his Cabinet is very diverse and that should be applauded."  Falling short with Asian Americans  While Black and Latino leaders say they are pleased with the Cabinet picks, Biden did not meet the expectations of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus that asked for top-tier representation in the Cabinet. Asian Americans are the fastest growing racial group in the nation and make up 6% of the US population. Biden nominated two Asian people to Cabinet level positions. Neera Tanden will be the Office of Management and Budget Director and Katherine Tai was named US Trade Representative. Both will be the first Asian American women in their roles. Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair and California Rep. Judy Chu called it "incredibly disheartening" that an Asian American Pacific Islander was not selected for a Cabinet secretary job for the first time since 2000.  "Despite the diversity amongst these Cabinets selections, we are deeply disappointed by the decision to exclude AAPIs from the 15 Cabinet Secretary positions who oversee executive departments in our government," Chu said. "The glaring omission of an AAPI Cabinet Secretary in the self-declared 'most diverse Cabinet in history' is not lost on us and sends a demoralizing message to our nation's fastest growing racial group and voting bloc that AAPIs do not need to be counted the same way as other key constituency groups." According to CNN exit polls, Asian Americans backed Biden at 61%.  Biden has promised to meet the concerns of AAPI's including appointing them as judges and federal officials, protecting the Affordable Care Act to mitigate their barriers to healthcare access, fighting the rise in hate crimes against their community, and rescinding Trump's Muslim ban.  A 'milestone,' but it's only a first step In December, Biden met with several Black civil rights leaders who pushed Biden to tap Black people for high level Cabinet roles and not just second-tier positions. Many wanted Biden to pick a Black attorney general who would crack down on police violence in the Black community and voting rights. Biden ultimately selected Merrick Garland for the role. Black Americans make up 12% of the US population and have faced oppression dating back to slavery and the Jim Crow era. Black people are also three times more likely than White people to be killed by police, according to the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.  Biden ultimately picked five Black people for his Cabinet including incoming Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, who will be the first Black person to lead the Pentagon, and Ohio Rep. Marcia Fudge, who was named HUD secretary. Other Black nominees include incoming EPA Administrator Michael Regan, who will be the first Black man to head the department; Cecilia Rouse, incoming chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the first Black person to hold the post; and Linda Thomas-Greenfield will be U.N. Ambassador. Marc Morial, president of the National Urban League, was among the civil rights leaders who met with Biden and said the President-elect has achieved a "milestone" with this diverse Cabinet. Morial said he believes their push for diversity was crucial to ensure Biden kept his word. Now Biden will be charged with prioritizing equitable Covid-19 vaccine access, economic equality and increased funding for Black-owned businesses, voting rights and other issues affecting the Black community, Morial said. "He has successfully gotten to first base," Morial said. "I think for people who are fair minded and open minded, the truth is that the way people feel will very much be predicated on how they (Biden's Cabinet) perform."  Biden makes gains with Latinos  Latino leaders have also praised Biden for his Cabinet picks. Latinos hold the largest minority population in the country at 18%. Biden selected four Latino people for his Cabinet and three are Cabinet secretaries. The nominees include Xavier Becerra, for Secretary of Health and Human Services; Miguel Cardona for Secretary of Education, Alejandro Mayorkas for Secretary of Homeland Security; and Isabel Guzman who will be the Small Business Administrator. Becerra and Mayorkas will be the first Latinos to lead their departments.  Last week, the heads of UnidosUs, Hispanic Federation and other national groups met with Biden, Harris and their Hispanic Cabinet nominees to discuss the challenges facing the Latino community. Among the issues discussed were the devastating toll Covid-19 has had on Latino Americans, health care access, immigration, and jobs, the leaders said in a statement. "The President-elect knows our people are hurting," said Janet Murguía, UnidosUS President and CEO. "He wants to address the health and economic impact on the Latino community and understands the need to address systemic inequality by putting equity at the center of his economic and health care response. This feels like a new day, a huge change." Eric Rodriguez, senior vice president of UnidosUS, said he expects Biden to undo the Trump administration's anti-immigration policies that he called "cruel and heartless and gutless." Rodriguez said having a diverse Cabinet will help Biden gain the trust of people of color. "Having that cultural experience and background is just so important to being able to communicate and get information from those communities," Rodriguez said. Native Americans celebrate historic appointment Biden was also lauded by Native Americans when he nominated Deb Haaland for secretary of the Interior, which will make her the first Native American to lead a Cabinet agency. Crystal Echo Hawk, executive director of IllumiNative, said she now wants to see Biden's Cabinet boost funding for Covid-19 relief in Native American communities and ensure vaccine access. Echo Hawk said Native Americans have been sickened or dying from Covid-19 at high rates because of the "deliberate and long-term under-funding" of their health care systems. Native Americans are also asking Biden to undo the repeated attempts by the Trump administration to undermine tribal sovereignty over their lands and sacred sites, suspend Trump's decision to lease drilling rights on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and rebuild the relationship between tribal leaders and the federal government, Echo Hawk said. "We are encouraged to see these strides toward political representation that looks like the United States and the constituents the Cabinet serves," Echo Hawk said. "However, this must be accompanied by policies that transform the systems of power that have shutout Native, Black, Latinx, and other communities of color for generations." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

17 Free speech's benefit to society in doubt as hate and lies flood social media
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_2397f0d7786c24c51f369a30dbe937ed
(CNN) - With most Americans hoping this week's expected inauguration protests look nothing like the Capitol siege, questions emerge about unrestrained free expression, long championed by First Amendment theorists as a benefit to society, no matter how ugly and hateful. The optics may be disturbing, especially so soon after the riot, with the potential of protesters -- many of like mind with those who stormed the Capitol -- screaming, or worse, at troops and police standing guard outside the razor wire-topped fences surrounding the Capitol. Is allowing this type of expression "good" for America? An old First Amendment theory -- known as the safety valve -- says it is, that permitting groups to express themselves releases pressure, ensuring objectionable ideas aren't driven underground where they might boil over into violence.  Permitting free speech, including hate and extremist speech, is often cast as a universal boon, reinforced in idioms such as, "Sunlight is the best disinfectant" and "I don't agree with what you say, but I'll defend your right to say it." Not all First Amendment scholars are buying the safety valve theory, especially after the deadly episode at the Capitol. They question if extremist speech demands more limitations when it's inextricably linked to the violence at the nation's legislative headquarters, after hateful online rhetoric dovetailed with politicians and activists delivering speeches to revved-up crowds that marched to the Capitol, some bent on insurrection.  Even the American Civil Liberties Union, the consummate guardian of speech, has sought to address the "competing values" its long-held defense of expression presents, and some experts say free speech theories need to take into account the way social media has transformed the marketplace of ideas.  "We have to pay attention to the way that tech platforms are shaping discourse and the way technology moves fringe ideas into the mainstream," said Joan Donovan, research director at Harvard's Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy. "The idea we would somehow get out of it by not paying attention to what's going on and opening the floodgates to more speech misunderstands the phenomenon of online platforms and misunderstands the technology." 'Protection against ... noxious doctrine' Ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, government and corporations are taking measures to avoid the violence that marred his Electoral College affirmation. Thousands of troops and police will be on hand, and companies including Apple, Google, Amazon, Twitter and Facebook are deplatforming and banning users, including President Donald Trump, while corporations such as PayPal and Airbnb are temporarily blocking resources, such as fundraising venues and places to stay.  Some of those targeted are crying censorship, but the First Amendment protects against government, not private organizations, stymieing expression. Big Tech and others, several scholars say, are correct to shut down extremist speech after seeing the role words on their platforms played in planning and stoking the Capitol mayhem.  The concept that would become the safety valve theory was born with US Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis' 1927 concurring opinion in Whitney v. California. He posited "that without free speech and assembly discussion would be futile; that with them, discussion affords ordinarily adequate protection against the dissemination of noxious doctrine." Four decades later, renowned First Amendment scholar Thomas Emerson named the theory, writing that "suppression of belief, opinion and expression is an affront to the dignity of man, a negation of man's essential nature." Robert Richards, founding director for the Pennsylvania Center for the First Amendment at Penn State, believes the safety valve theory has relevance in today's censorship discussions, he said, but he's not sure it's at play here, yet, given the timeframes, who's shutting down the speech and the other available avenues for expression.  Rather, he sees the corporations responding in a temporary manner to an emergency situation, "exigent circumstances that threaten to play out again," he said. Yes, shutting down speakers over time carries risks their behavior will "bubble up in some worse fashion," but there's no indication the corporate measures are permanent. They're narrowly tailored to specific speakers, apps or windows of time, he said. "The main difference (between corporations and government shutting down speech) is the private sector can make its own rules," he said. "Going forward, those restrictions will ease up as the temperature of the country's politics goes down. ... I don't really think there's a lot of permanent ending of speech." A far better example of the safety valve theory is the Arab Spring, Richards said. Citizens rose up across the Middle East and Africa -- to spur reform and regime change, not question a legitimate election -- but their anger reached critical mass after years of systemic oppression, he said, not a few weeks of Twitter or Airbnb bans. Americans also have alternative venues to speak out, where most Tunisians and Libyans did not Is banning hate speech a dangerous precedent? Brandeis died in 1941, Emerson in 1991 -- long before the advent of social media. They couldn't envision what the town square would become once an individual could reach millions by pulling out a phone and pecking at the screen. "As a technologist and a lawyer, I've been troubled by the role that gatherings facilitated by technology have played," said Wendy Seltzer, an affiliate at Harvard's Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society. "The First Amendment protects speech but not incitement to violence, so the challenge is to figure out how to offer the widest possible venue/forum for speech that enables people to develop ideas ... and find other perspectives and learn, while having checks in place to prevent it from turning into violence or being a place where violent mobs gather to plot their activities." Distinguishing between protected speech and incitement of violence isn't easy. Many theorists once felt online "rabbit hole conspiracy development" was harmless, Seltzer said, but new research suggests "people (are) being drawn into them because they find themselves surrounded by people with extreme viewpoints and get confirmation for those viewpoints -- and they have a hard time getting back to reality." While Seltzer says experts need to reevaluate where First Amendment theory "meets practice when people behave in ways that get radicalized by discussion," others call for outright prohibitions on extremist speech.  Numerous nations, including Canada and some American allies across Europe, have banned hate speech, in particular, but the US Supreme Court historically has held such rhetoric is protected -- despite myriad examples of First Amendment caveats, including inciting violence, libel/slander, child pornography, fighting words, copyright infringements and threatening the president. Roy Guttenberg, director of Syracuse University's Tully Center for Free Speech, worries, he said: Once you start criminalizing speech, where does it end?  "Europe and Germany and France, they have different histories and obviously their laws have criminalized certain speech that we would legally accept here," he said. "The categories of speech that we criminalize are really specific and narrow, and narrow for a reason. I'm not sure a new category of illegal hate speech would really comport with the First Amendment, and maybe I'm being naive." Is it better to cut off hatemongers' oxygen? Ninety-four years after Brandeis' pontifications, it's still an evolving discussion. Supreme Court decisions offer sparse bright lines for what expression can be banned.  Texas v. Johnson said flag burning is OK. Watts v. US stated that "crude political hyperbole" is not a true threat, another First Amendment caveat. Brandenburg v. Ohio found speech advocating crime is allowed as long as it doesn't incite imminent lawlessness. Virginia v. Black ruled cross burnings could be carried out in private but not in public to intimidate others. Elonis v US ruled rapping about killing can be protected speech, but Justice Samuel Alito, in a partial dissent, worried the high court decision would "cause confusion and serious problems" because it left the standard for true threats subjective.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor said herself the high court's standards for true threats are murky. In denying a 2017 hearing in Perez v. Florida involving a man drunkenly threatening to blow up a liquor store, she wrote the Watts and Black cases clarify a speaker must intend to convey a threat to be guilty of a crime, but the high court never addressed the level of intent -- "a question we avoided two terms ago in Elonis." Guttenberg knows definitive answers are elusive; still, he errs on the side of free expression, he said. "So often, free speech advocates end up having to support viewpoints that we don't always agree with," he said. "After what we saw (at the Capitol) and even going back a couple years to Charlottesville, I can understand how people might have reservations about the safety valve theory. I still think it involves a pretty important function, to allow people to say things that are offensive." Other observers see it differently, including Robert Moon, a law professor at the University of Windsor in Ontario, Canada, where hate speech laws broadly prohibit inciting hatred against "identifiable groups." "Hate speech and false claims on the internet can have consequences -- and are not just steam being blown off," he said. "Hateful speech plays to fear and resentment -- appealing to the audience at a visceral level. It is often directed at a sympathetic audience in a context that limits the opportunity for debate and reflection. In such circumstances, some in the audience may take seriously the message of hate speech and follow its logic to a violent conclusion." Bad actors harnessed free speech to fool the Capitol rioters into believing an election was stolen, justifying their anger and pushing them to violence, Moon said. While he worries efforts to ban hateful, harassing or misleading speech might become overinclusive, he said, he's not convinced that's happening.  "Limiting the spread of false information -- particularly to a mob -- is not going to lead to more violence," he said. "I'm not persuaded that the frustration at not being able to reach a significant audience outweighs the risks that come with spreading hatred and disinformation. There is more reason to think that denying hatemongers a platform cuts off their oxygen." 'I think about the people who are impacted' Harvard's Seltzer and Donovan say it's time to have new conversations on the absolutist interpretations of the First Amendment, taking into consideration the ways ideas live, grow and motivate others in the technological landscape.  Race and gender scholars point out notions about free speech emanate primarily from scholars and politicians who are overwhelmingly White, Seltzer said: "It's easy for a White male to say, 'Anyone's speech is OK,' and much harder for someone in a minority position who is constantly bombarded with speech telling them they are not equal and who don't have as much access to laws and courts to gain protections." Those notions also don't account for confirmation bias, a plague of social media wherein people believe disinformation, seek out data supporting it and ignore contradicting information.   "Our First Amendment theory and practice need to be informed by the context and the way humans behave in technological affordances," Seltzer said. "I'm comfortable saying I will defend even hateful speech as long as I can stand up in alliance with those harmed by that speech and do useful things to protect them from the consequences of it." Donovan doesn't think about extremist speech in the abstract, she said. As a queer woman, she moved to Canada in 2004 to escape the hate she felt homing in on the LGBTQ community.  As an expert in online extremism and disinformation campaigns, she watched as: Trump "seeded hundreds of little lies" across fertile social media fields; extremists tore Black Lives Matter banners off church facades last month, most with little consequence; and key figures in Gamergate and Charlottesville stoked online fury ahead of the attempted coup. "I think about what it makes people who are hated on have to do in order to stay safe. ... I think about the people who are impacted, all the things Black people are going to have to go through in the next couple weeks to make sure they're not attacked," Donovan said.  'They're threatening to kill people' It can't be ignored, too, that some of those involved in the January 6 attempted coup chanted about the Vice President, "Hang Mike Pence!" and one of the insurrectionists wrote, "Murder the media" on a door inside the Capitol. "We're not in the abstract here in that there's no direct threat, and there's no morally ambiguous words being used here. They're threatening to kill people," Donovan said. It will take years to "dampen and temper" the effects of extremists having the opportunity to network and congregate unfettered, said Donovan, who in 2018 made a case for journalists and community groups "quarantining" toxic ideas. "I'm talking about this group that really rode the lightning that was Donald Trump into relevancy, and now we have to understand that those people who have met each other and smiled and high-fived and talked about overthrowing the Capitol and killing (US Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez) and hanging Mike Pence, they now all know each other. They've exchanged phone numbers," she said.  Those ideas grow more dangerous in numbers, Seltzer said.  "It would be great if the safety valve worked," she said. "The fear and what we're seeing in lots of YouTube rabbit holes and QAnon conversations is people expressing things that are out there and finding themselves amid a cluster of people whose views are even further out there -- maybe even more dangerous views. "They're not in the public square taking turns on a soap box. They're in an echo chamber." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

18 Trump's 11th-hour pardons keep with tradition, even if those pardoned do not
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_bfe77ec12fd4c330b3b10a334d41ffed
(CNN) - President Donald Trump's expected batch of 100 pardons and commutations on the penultimate day of his presidency won't be the highest of his recent predecessors. But his record of clemency could very well be the most controversial. Unlike past presidents, Trump has shown little interest in using the Justice Department's Pardon Attorney system for assessing requests for executive clemency. Instead, petitioners are approaching the White House directly, calling or emailing senior adviser Jared Kushner, chief of staff Mark Meadows or White House counsel Pat Cipollone -- when they can't get a hold of Trump himself. Many of the people Trump has chosen to pardon so far fall along predictable lines: associates such as Roger Stone and Michael Flynn who remained loyal to him through their legal troubles; criminals with friendly or familial ties to the administration, such as Jared Kushner's father Charles; celebrities or people connected to celebrities, such as Rod Blagojevich; and those whose cause was taken up by conservative media, such as Blackwater security guards who massacred Iraqi civilians. He has pardoned or commuted the sentences of some people serving lengthy prison terms for low-level offenses, such as Alice Johnson, who spoke at the Republican National Convention. But by and large, Trump's pardon record has broken with historical norms. Many of the high-profile criminals he has pardoned have shown little contrition or remorse for their crimes and few have argued they were wrongfully convicted. He is expected to adhere to that record on Tuesday when he issues around 100 pardons or commutations. The final batch of clemency actions is expected to include a mix of criminal justice reform-minded pardons and more controversial ones secured or doled out to political allies. White collar criminals, high-profile rappers and a prominent eye doctor from Palm Beach, Florida, who is in prison after being convicted on dozens of counts of health care fraud, are expected to be on the list. There has been a crush of pardon requests during Trump's final days in office from allies, lobbyists and others hoping to cash in on their loyalty to Trump. The New York Times reported Sunday some of those people were getting paid tens of thousands of dollars to lobby on behalf of felons hoping for pardons. "Everyone assumed there's no formal process and they should reach out to the administration directly," a person familiar with the matter has told CNN. "Everyone hopes they have a friend of a friend of a friend of a cousin who they hope will get them to read their email." The 11th-hour batch of clemency is in keeping with presidential tradition. President Barack Obama pardoned or commuted the sentences of 330 individuals on the day before he left office, a record number that went mainly to low level drug offenders serving mandatory sentences.  President George W. Bush was more sparing with his use of pardons and commutations. He commuted the sentences of two border agents as he departed office (Trump later pardoned them). But he wrote in his memoir how a rush of requests came to him as he closed out his tenure. "One of the biggest surprises of my presidency was the flood of pardon requests at the end. I could not believe the number of people who pulled me aside to suggest that a friend or former colleague deserved a pardon. At first I was frustrated. Then I was disgusted," he wrote in "Decision Points." "I came to see massive injustice in the system," he added. "If you had connections to the president, you could insert your case into the last-minute frenzy. Otherwise, you had to wait for the Justice Department to conduct a review and make recommendation. In my final weeks in office, I resolved that I would not pardon anyone who went outside the formal channels." Bush said he told Obama in their shared limo ride to the US Capitol for Obama's inauguration to develop a pardon policy early on and stick to it. President Bill Clinton drew scrutiny for his pardons and commutations of 140 people on Inauguration Day in 2000, which included high profile donors and political supporters such as Marc Rich, his half-brother Roger and Patty Hearst. Some of them came after middlemen, paid high sums, intervened with Clinton to argue their case. But the majority of the people on his list still went through the Justice Department process. President George H.W. Bush pardoned a dozen people a day before leaving office. President Ronald Reagan pardoned around 25 people during his final week as president. And President Jimmy Carter, as he departed office, pardoned Pete Yarrow, of the group Peter, Paul and Mary, for an "indecent liberties" offense with a 14-year-old girl.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

19 Trump to issue around 100 pardons and commutations Tuesday, sources say
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_7f599ef226df07537bc2908a92d10228
(CNN) - President Donald Trump is preparing to issue around 100 pardons and commutations on his final full day in office Tuesday, according to three people familiar with the matter, a major batch of clemency actions that includes white collar criminals, high-profile rappers and others but -- as of now -- is not expected to include Trump himself. The White House held a meeting on Sunday to finalize the list of pardons, two sources said. Trump, who had been rolling out pardons and commutations at a steady clip ahead of Christmas, had put a pause on them in the days leading up to and directly after the January 6 riots at the US Capitol, according to officials. Aides said Trump was singularly focused on the Electoral College count in the days ahead of time, precluding him for making final decisions on pardons. White House officials had expected them to resume after January 6, but Trump retreated after he was blamed for inciting the riots. RELATED: Trump's 'pro-law enforcement' image crumbles in his final days Initially, two major batches had been ready to roll out, one at the end of last week and one on Tuesday. Now, officials expect the last batch to be the only one -- unless Trump decides at the last minute to grant pardons to controversial allies, members of his family or himself.  The final batch of clemency actions is expected to include a mix of criminal justice reform-minded pardons and more controversial ones secured or doled out to political allies.  The pardons are one of several items Trump must complete before his presidency ends in days. White House officials also still have executive orders prepared, and the President is still hopeful to declassify information related to the Russia probe before he leaves office. But with a waning number of administration officials still in jobs, the likelihood that any of it gets done seemed to be shrinking. The January 6 riots that led to Trump's second impeachment have complicated his desire to pardon himself, his kids and personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani. At this point, aides do not think he will do so, but caution only Trump knows what he will do with his last bit of presidential power before he is officially out of office at noon on January 20. After the riots, advisers encouraged Trump to forgo a self-pardon because it would appear like he was guilty of something, according to one person familiar with the conversations. Several of Trump's closest advisers have also urged him not to grant clemency to anyone involved in the siege on the US Capitol, despite Trump's initial stance that those involved had done nothing wrong.  "There are a lot of people urging the President to pardon the folks" involved in the insurrection, Trump ally Sen. Lindsey Graham said Sunday on Fox News. "To seek a pardon of these people would be wrong." One White House official said paperwork had not yet been drawn up for a self-pardon.  Still, Trump is expected to leave the White House on January 20 and could issue pardons up until noon on Inauguration Day.  Other attention-grabbing names, like Julian Assange, are also not currently believed to among the people receiving pardons, but the list is still fluid and that could change, too. It's also not certain whether Trump's former adviser Steve Bannon will receive a pardon. RELATED: Wikileaks asks reporters for help in desperate bid to score Julian Assange last-minute pardon Trump is still receiving multiple streams of recommendations on pardons from those advisers who remain at the White House, as well as people outside the building who have been lobbying for months for themselves or their clients. The expectation among allies is that Trump will issue pardons that he could benefit from post presidency.  "Everything is a transaction. He likes pardons because it is unilateral. And he likes doing favors for people he thinks will owe him," one source familiar with the matter said. Salomon Melgen clemency possible Dr. Salomon Melgen, a prominent eye doctor from Palm Beach, Florida, who is in prison after being convicted on dozens of counts of health care fraud, is currently expected to be included in the clemency list, three sources familiar tell CNN. Melgen, who is noteworthy for being the co-conspirator in a since-dismissed corruption case against Democratic New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez, was sentenced to 17 years for health care fraud in 2018. While his name surprised some Trump allies given the President's attitude toward Menendez, Melgen is seen as a wealthy and influential figure in south Florida. The corruption case against Menendez and Melgen was dropped by the Justice Department in January 2018. Inside the White House, there has been a scramble to petition for pardons on behalf of allies and advocacy groups and names could be added and taken off up until the last minute, sources say.  CNN previously reported there has been a crush of pardon requests during Trump's final days in office from allies, lobbyists and others hoping to cash in on their loyalty to Trump. The New York Times reported Sunday some of those people were getting paid tens of thousands of dollars to lobby on behalf of felons hoping for pardons.  This story has been updated with additional reporting. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

20 New York Times: Trump allies have collected tens of thousands of dollars from pardon seekers
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_f643aaf5b28e499657438697ba78b035
(CNN) - Allies and associates of President Donald Trump have collected tens of thousands of dollars in fees from those seeking pardons from the President, The New York Times reported Sunday. The Times, citing documents and interviews with more than three dozen lobbyists and lawyers, reported that the lobbying for clemency intensified as it became apparent Trump had no standing to challenge his election loss to President-elect Joe Biden. Those who monetized the lobbying efforts include a former federal prosecutor, a former personal lawyer to the President and a former top Trump campaign adviser, among others, the Times reported. As CNN previously reported, Trump has been expected to issue a flurry of pardons in the final days of his presidency and close business associates of the President and many high-profile criminals have ramped up efforts to secure a pardon before he leaves office.  As of late December, Trump was considering pardons for more than two dozen people in his orbit whom he believes were targeted -- or could be targeted in the future -- for political ends. That's in addition to hundreds of requests from others who have approached the White House directly, and tens of thousands more whose petitions are pending at the Justice Department. According to the Times, former US attorney Brett Tolman has collected tens of thousands of dollars in recent weeks to seek clemency for several people. Tolman did not respond to the New York Times' request for comment. CNN has also reached out to Tolman for comment. Former Trump attorney John Dowd has also accepted "tens of thousands of dollars from a wealthy felon and advising him and other potential clients to leverage Mr. Trump's grievances about the justice system," according to the Times. Dowd declined to answer questions to the Times and declined to comment on the report when reached by CNN Sunday. And a former Trump campaign top adviser was paid $50,000 to secure a pardon for John Kiriakou, a former CIA intelligence officer who was convicted of illegally disclosing classified information in 2012, and agreed to a $50,000 bonus if the president granted it, according to a copy of an agreement obtained by the newspaper.  Kiriakou said, according to the Times, that an associate of Trump personal attorney Rudy Giuliani claimed the former mayor of New York could help with a pardon request for $2 million. Giuliani rejected those claims to the Times. CNN has reached out to Giuliani for comment Sunday. The White House did not respond to CNN's request for comment Sunday and declined to comment to the Times. The Times noted that "there is nothing illegal about Trump associates being paid to lobby for clemency" and that any explicit offers of payment to the President could be investigated for possible violations of bribery laws. There is no evidence, however, that Trump was offered money in exchange for a pardon, according to the newspaper. Following Trump's reelection loss, calls and emails flooded into the West Wing from people looking to benefit. At one point, his staff was so inundated with requests for pardons or commutations that a spreadsheet had been created to keep track of the requests directed to Trump's close aides. Trump has also discussed issuing pardons for himself and his children with new urgency since the attack on the US Capitol on January 6, multiple sources familiar with the matter told CNN. However aides and allies are concerned over the public perception of such a pardon following the violent insurrection, which led to the deaths of five people. So far, the President has pardoned and commuted sentences of several people in his circle, including longtime friend Roger Stone, former campaign manager Paul Manafort and former 2016 campaign aide George Papadopoulos. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

21 Trump's sordid pardons cement his corrupt legacy (Opinion)
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_eb5e1dd141ae8db2bf6aea00d413ee74
Editor's Note: John Avlon is a CNN senior political analyst. The views expressed in this commentary belong to the author. View more opinions at CNN. (CNN) - The Founding Fathers would have been disgusted by President Donald Trump's serial abuse of the pardon power. Nearly 90% of his pardons to date have gone to friends or politically connected allies -- including corrupt politicians. While the President's pardon power may seem unconstrained by the Constitution, a closer look shows that Trump is violating every principle the framers of the Constitution assumed would be followed by a principled President -- and there's evidence they intended special constraints on a President's pardon power after they'd been impeached.    Remember, the Founders were focused on restraining the power of the President to ensure he would not turn into a new type of tyrant. That's why the President's pardoning power was so hotly debated at the constitutional convention.   Virginia's George Mason argued that the President "ought not to have the power of pardoning, because he may frequently pardon crimes which were advised by himself... If he has the power of granting pardons before indictment, or conviction, may he not stop inquiry and prevent detection?" Mason warned that this could "destroy the republic."   But wait, some will say, the Founders did not ultimately enshrine Mason's warning into the Constitution's broad final language: "power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment."    In response, I'll raise you President James Madison and Alexander Hamilton.    Madison argued that a President's pardoning power would be restricted during the impeachment process -- precisely the situation Donald Trump finds himself in today. As the Brookings Institution's D.W. Buffa explains, "What can stop him pardoning anyone who was involved in the crimes for which the president is being impeached or whose testimony might put him in jeopardy? The president, according to Madison, still holds office, but he no longer has the power to pardon. The House can 'suspend him when suspected, and the power will devolve on the Vice-President. Should he be suspected, also, he may likewise be suspended till he be impeached and removed, and the legislature may make a temporary appointment. This is a great security.'"   Hamilton, likewise, believed that Presidents' broad pardoning powers did not mean they would operate without ethical constraints. In Federalist 74, Hamilton discussed the debate over presidential pardons at length -- and made it clear that he assumed the President, then expected to be George Washington, would be a "man of prudence and good sense." This is unfortunately not the case with Trump.    Hamilton also assumed that pardons would be used to address an injustice, at a time when many crimes were punishable by death. As a result, he reasoned that checks and balances on the President's pardoning power -- such as advice and consent from Congress -- could result in a literally deadly delay that would deny justice forever.    When the now timely subject of sedition or treason were raised as extreme examples for presidential pardon power, Hamilton argued that "in seasons of insurrection or rebellion, there are often critical moments, when a well-timed offer of pardon to the insurgents or rebels may restore the tranquility of the commonwealth; and which, if suffered to pass unimproved, it may never be possible afterwards to recall."    In this, Hamilton perfectly anticipated the scenario when President Washington offered a pardon for charges of treason brought against the instigators of the Whiskey Rebellion less than a decade later. Mercy secured the public good.    But if President Trump offers a broad pardon or amnesty to his supporters who stormed the US Capitol in an attempted coup on January 6, the prospect of a general pardon would be to reward his supporters for an attack on the government -- not to secure the common good. This is the opposite of what the Founders intended.    Which brings us to the final insult: the idea that a President can pardon himself. This is absurd on its face "under the fundamental rule that no one may be a judge in his own case, the president cannot pardon himself." That was the principle cited by a 1974 Office of Legal Counsel opinion during President Richard Nixon's politically fatal travails with Watergate. Advocates of the unitary executive might come up with other arguments, but the undeniable logic of the principle still stands. The alternative would put the President above the law and give him the power to legally excuse any tyrannical action he took in office. This was clearly not what the Founders intended.    And for what it's worth, the President's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, argued on NBC's "Meet the Press" in 2018 that "the President of the United States pardoning himself would just be unthinkable. And it would lead to probably an immediate impeachment."   Speaking of impeachment, it's clear that the Founders' assumption that impeachment would be a constraint against abuse of the pardon power was imperfectly thought out. They did not adequately appreciate that Presidents would issue their most controversial pardons on their way out the door, making the prospect of impeachment less of a deterrent to this abuse of power.    In any case, there are a few constraints in place. No pardon can protect a person from prosecution for future crimes. There is no permanent get out of jail free card. Moreover, presidential pardons do not restrict state and local prosecution, which Trump has every reason to fear.   The Founders' intent also makes a strong case that pardons for people who may have committed a crime at the order of a President or blanket pre-emptive pardons to family members and political cronies ought to be rejected by any judge who calls themselves an originalist. (For a deeper dive into this argument, I recommend reading Professor Aaron Rappaport in Just Security).   Regardless, there clearly is a need for reform of the President's pardoning power -- even if it is to formalize past democratic norms, like the Justice Department signing off on recommendations, which should be based on clemency, not cronyism.    When President Bill Clinton bypassed regular Justice Department channels to pardon financier Marc Rich, there was resounding and repeated outcry from conservative editorial boards -- the Wall Street Journal, in particular. But they have been largely silent about Trump's corrupt abuse of the pardoning power to date. Notably, a then-Senator named Joe Biden was quoted in a February 13, 2001 WSJ editorial as saying it was "totally indefensible."     This kind of moral consistency across partisan lines is rare (though GOP Sen. Ben Sasse accurately slammed the pardon of Paul Manafort as "rotten to the core."). But the investigations that followed Clinton's dodgiest pardons should certainly be pursued in Trump's case.   The purpose of the pardon is to do justice, not to excuse injustice. Donald Trump, characteristically, seems hell-bent on doing the opposite -- to benefit himself. And more sordid pardons on his way out of the White House will only solidify his reputation as the worst and most corrupt President in American history. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

22 Anderson Cooper Full Circle
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_a1c88fb2eac00c418b7ed18f405bf3ae
(CNN) - Anderson Cooper hosts a digital show streaming live around the world covering the stories that audiences care about most. Anderson Cooper Full Circle airs Monday, Tuesday and Friday at 6p E.T. DC National Guardsman teaches music on Zoom while deployed at Capitol CNN's Anderson Cooper talks to DC National Guardsman Sgt. Jacob Kohut, who teaches music to students virtually in between guarding the US Capitol.  Dan Harris discusses power of mindfulness during perilous times CNN's Anderson Cooper speaks with ABC News anchor and host of the 'Ten Percent Happier' podcast, Dan Harris, about the power of meditation and mindfulness in times of crisis. Watch Full Circle Monday, Tuesday and Friday this week at 6p E.T. Former White nationalist on rise of extremism in the US Anderson Cooper talks to Derek Black, a former White nationalist about hate groups and the armed threats at all 50 state capitols and in Washington, DC. Legendary journalist Sam Donaldson discusses the state of the US CNN's Anderson Cooper talks to legendary journalist Sam Donaldson about Democrats' impeachment plans, the 25th amendment and the state of US democracy. Anderson talks with Dr. Gupta about keeping your brain sharp Anderson Cooper and Dr. Sanjay Gupta talk about brain health in the age of Covid-19 and Dr. Gupta's new book "Keep Sharp: How To Build a Better Brain at Any Age." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

23 Fired Florida data scientist Rebekah Jones turns herself in to authorities
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_ec92b650ef56f786d9fa831745e959eb
(CNN) - The former Florida data analyst who has accused state officials of covering up the extent of the pandemic has turned herself in to authorities in Leon County days after a warrant was issued for her arrest, according to a news release from Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE).   Rebekah Jones has been charged with one count of offenses against users of computers, computer systems, computer networks and electronic devices, the news release stated.  Jones was fired from the Florida Department of Health in May and has repeatedly criticized Gov. Ron DeSantis' handling of the Covid-19 crisis. The FDLE has said it is investigating whether Jones accessed a state messaging system without authorization to call for state officials to speak out about Covid-19 deaths.  "It's time to speak up before another 17,000 people are dead," said a message sent on November 10, according to the affidavit. "You know this is wrong. You don't have to be part of this. Be a hero. Speak out before it's too late." Officials traced that message to an IP address linked to Jones' house, according to a search-warrant affidavit. On December 7, Jones' home was raided. Jones has filed a lawsuit, alleging FDLE officials violated her First Amendment rights, deprived her of due process and unlawfully seized her computers, cell phone and storage media during a search of her home. The suit states that IP addresses are commonly "spoofed" and references news articles that found that the username and password for the system of the message that triggered the investigation were publicly available on the health department's website. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

24 Expert sees 'a ray of sunshine' in Covid-19 battle, but deaths and variant cases are growing in the US
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_f5cd482db67fa581976d0f73ff0849e2
(CNN) - As the US approaches 400,000 deaths from the coronavirus pandemic, new cases have been trending down but multiple states are reporting cases of new variants of the virus. The US recorded 1.5 million new Covid-19 cases in the past seven days, according to the most recent data from Johns Hopkins University, an 11% drop from the previous week. Cases declined in 35 states week-over-week, and 18 states saw a drop in the number of deaths. But with a longer range view, last week's apparent improvement falls much closer to average. Over the past month, the number of new Covid-19 cases recorded each day has ranged from nearly 101,000 to more than 302,000; over the past seven days, new cases averaged about 218,000 daily.  "The virus has established itself in the human population and it's not going anywhere," Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease expert with Johns Hopkins University, told CNN. "We're going to see a lot of transmission until we cross the threshold for herd immunity." At least 398,879 people have died in the U.S. from Covid-19 in the United States, and the country passed the 24 million mark in total cases on Monday, according to Johns Hopkins University data. More than half -- 60% -- of all Covid-19 cases in the United states have been reported since Election Day, according to a CNN analysis of Johns Hopkins University data. California, the current epicenter of the pandemic in the US, became the first state on Monday to record more than 3 million Covid-19 cases, according to data from Johns Hopkins and the Covid Tracking Project. The number of Covid-19 cases in California has tripled in just the past two months. The country's total Covid-19 death toll is more than the number of Americans who died in World War I, the Vietnam War and the Korean War combined and nearly as many Americans who died in World War II.  And it's far higher than any other country's Covid-19 death toll. Multiple US states have now reported cases of a new Covid-19 variant first detected in the UK. And a new Covid-19 variant is now "increasingly being found in multiple counties throughout California," state health officials announced Sunday in a news release. The variant, known as 452R, is different from the B.1.1.7 variant first detected in the United Kingdom, health officials say. As testing for variants has ramped up in California, the 452R version has been identified more frequently since November and has been identified in large outbreaks in Santa Clara County. At least 122 cases of the B.1.1.7 variant have been identified in 20 US states, according to data posted Monday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This includes at least 46 cases in Florida, 40 in California, six in Colorado, five in Minnesota, four in Indiana, four in New York, two in Connecticut, two in Maryland, two in Texas, and one case each in Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Utah, Wisconsin and Wyoming. States worried about vaccine supply Meanwhile, more than 12.2 million Americans have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and more than 31 million doses have been distributed across the country, according to the latest data from the CDC.  That's as the country is just days away from President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration. Biden has outlined a plan for vaccinations that includes opening up eligibility to more people, creating more vaccination sites and taking measures to increase vaccine supply and distribution.  Washington state is now allowing anyone age 65 and older to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, part of a major change in plans to distribute shots. The announcement from Gov. Jay Inslee makes nearly 400,000 more people eligible to be vaccinated. The governor also announced a goal of increasing the number of people vaccinated every day to 45,000, which is greater than the current amount of vaccine they have available.  "We can't reach that goal unless we get more doses, obviously, from the federal government," said Inslee, but he said that he wants the state to be prepared for deliveries to be ramped up. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz on Monday called for the federal government to release more doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, saying that his state currently had "a very limited supply." "The federal government has been giving mixed messages on vaccine availability and guidance, and we need them to step up and get more vaccine to the state," Walz said Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers said Monday he believes the incoming Biden administration will come through. "I believe the Biden administration understands the importance of this," Evers said while speaking at a vaccination clinic in Green Bay. "We will get the vaccine that we need."  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar on Monday demanding an explanation for what Cuomo said was a false claim that vaccine doses held in reserve would be shipped to states. "The federal government is in control of the supply, they must increase the supply," Cuomo said. Cuomo said he also sent a letter to the president of Pfizer asking if New York can buy vaccine doses directly from the drug company, which Cuomo believes would be a first. In a statement provided to CNN, Pfizer responded to Cuomo's comments, saying, the company is open to collaborating with HHS to increase access to the vaccine. "However, before we can sell directly to State governments, HHS would need to approve that proposal based on the EUA granted to Pfizer by the FDA," the statement said. In Florida, more than 40,000 people who received their first Covid-19 vaccine dose are overdue for their second dose, according to the state's health department. Those people overdue for their second shot account for about 5% of the nearly 916,000 who have received their first Covid-19 vaccine shot. In Los Angeles, county officials are struggling to keep up with vaccination demand. While people 65 and older are eligible for the vaccine, the county is still inoculating health care workers. Dodger Stadium has opened as a mass-vaccination site and the county is scheduled to open similar sites at other locations this week. Los Angeles Unified School District, the nation's second largest public school district, has requested authorization from state and local officials to administer the Covid-19 vaccine, Superintendent Austin Beutner said Monday morning.  Beutner said the district, which has 1,413 schools spread over 710 square miles, has 12 health clinics in high-needs areas already licensed to provide vaccinations and can pivot to vaccination sites. "In a typical community we serve, there are about three drugstores, 2 fire stations, and 25 schools," he said. "No organization has the infrastructure to provide easier access to vaccinations than schools." Hospitals under 'severe stress' in next month More than 123,000 Americans are currently hospitalized with the virus nationwide, according to the Covid Tracking Project. To put that into perspective, that's more than double the country's Covid-19 hospitalization peak in spring, according to data from the project. In their latest briefing, the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation projected hospitals in many states "will be under severe stress in the next four weeks." That's already been the case in different parts across the country.  Los Angeles County -- the epicenter of California's Covid-19 crisis -- has battled a brutal surge of infections, hospitalizations and deaths for weeks now. County health officials reported Monday more than 7,328 people remained hospitalized with the virus -- 23% of whom were in intensive care units.  According to the state, the Southern California region continues to have 0% available ICU capacity. In another sign of the spread of the virus in Los Angeles County, an air pollution control agency says it has temporarily suspended limits on cremations to assist crematoriums in the county with a "backlog" caused by the pandemic. Permits for crematoriums usually contain limits on the number of human remains that can be cremated each month based on the potential impact they will have on air quality, according to the South Coast Air Quality Management District.  But after requests from both the county coroner and health department, the agency issued an emergency order Sunday suspending permit conditions that limit the number of cremations. Pennsylvania officials said late last week there were more than 4,900 people hospitalized with Covid-19 -- nearly double spring's peak.  In Georgia, one hospital told CNN affiliate WSB they were so full they had to treat patients in hallways and ambulances.  "We truly are in the darkest days," Dr. Deepak Aggarwal, with Northeast Georgia Medical Center, told the news station.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

25 People want the Covid-19 vaccine, but the government is failing
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_96864c3e94ab9276d8e7070eb1a695f2
(CNN) - It's been over a month now since the first Covid-19 vaccines were distributed in the United States, and we still haven't reached the initial goal set out for 20 million Americans to be vaccinated -- one initially set for the end of 2020. That has come and gone, and the promised windfall of doses being released from the federal reserve turned out to be a false hope, as the reserve had already been exhausted.  The federal government led by President Donald Trump has over-promised and under-delivered. As more and more Americans want the vaccine, we're getting more shots into arms, but not enough. The number of Americans vaccinated with at least one dose as of Friday stands at 10.6 million, according to the CDC. The number of total doses administered stands at 12.3 million. That's an increase of more than 5 million from last Friday, which equals to a little less than 1 million doses administered per day. Just a week ago, we averaged giving out about 500,000 vaccines on a given weekday. This was the first week in which we had at least one day of 1 million vaccines delivered on a given day and multiple reported days of at least 800,000 doses administered per day, though most days fell short of the incoming Biden's administration promise of a million doses per day.  Part of the rising vaccination rates has to do with the fact that more people who received a first dose are now eligible for a second. Part has at least partially to do with states loosening their restrictions on who can get the vaccine.  Still, even as the number of vaccinations rise, there are many doses that have yet to be used. The ratio of vaccines administered to those distributed to the states stands at 39%. That's better than it's ever been, but still is an indication that we're struggling to get the vaccines we do have into people.  It would be tempting to think that this is a problem of Democratic or Republican governance. To the degree that the President is a Republican, it is.   It's not as simple as that, however.  There is no clear relationship between the partisanship of a state's governor and the number of vaccines distributed. Four of the top 10 states (and District of Columbia) for vaccinations per 100,000 have Democratic heads, while four of the worst 10 states for vaccinations per 100,000 have Democratic governors.  Perhaps the best example of this is to look at New York and Florida. Both have similarly sized populations, but one with a Democratic and one with a Republican governor. They're ranked right near each other for the number of vaccines administered and both have a similar ratio of vaccines administered vs. distributed to each state.  Indeed, it seems that one factor into how many people are getting a vaccine is the size of the population of each state. The states (and the District of Columbia) with the 10 smallest populations have vaccinated about 5,000 per 100,000 on average, while the states with the 10 largest populations have vaccinated about 3,300 per 100,000.  This basic relationship of less populated states doing better at administering the vaccine holds even when controlling for the number of doses given to each state per 100,000.  While it's difficult to untangle why less populated states would be better, it could just be as simple as less populated states being able to coordinate better.  Fortunately, the problem so far hasn't seemed to be an unwillingness for folks to get vaccinated.  The fact is that more and more Americans say they want to get the vaccine.  In a Gallup poll this week, 65% said they'd get the Covid-19 vaccine if it was available to them at no cost. That's the highest percentage who said that in a Gallup poll since July.  Likewise, an Axios/Ipsos poll finds that 60% say it's at least somewhat likely they'll get the vaccine as soon as it's available. That's the highest percentage that poll has ever recorded on this question. The percentage (37%) who say they're very likely to get it is also its highest ever in the poll.  This makes sense because one of Americans' biggest reasons for not getting the vaccine was that they wanted to see if it was safe and effective. Given that the vaccines have proven to be exactly that through trials and one month of distribution in America, we would have expected it to rise.  That perhaps leaves us with the biggest remaining question on the Covid-19 vaccines in America. When will the supply and distribution meet the demand?  Hopefully, the Biden administration doesn't drop the ball like the Trump administration clearly has. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

26 Air quality regulator temporarily suspends cremation limits for LA County amid 'backlog' from pandemic
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_37a65468c85a7b0de9a1194f1dae3ce3
(CNN) - As Los Angeles County battles against the unrelenting coronavirus, an air pollution control agency says it has temporarily suspended limits on cremations in order to assist crematoriums in the county with a "backlog" caused by the pandemic. The South Coast Air Quality Management District said in a news release Sunday that permits for crematoriums usually contain limits on the number of human remains that can be cremated each month, based on the potential impact they will have on air quality.  But after requests from both the county coroner and health department, the agency issued an emergency order suspending permit conditions that limit the number of cremations, as long as crematoriums submit an email notice and meet certain requirements.  The news is part of a devastating series of headlines in recent days reflecting the gravity of the crisis in Los Angeles County: It just surpassed a million total reported infections. Hospitals declared internal disasters. And officials began adding more capacity to store bodies of Covid-19 victims.   Earlier this month, the county said a person was dying of the virus every eight minutes. "The current rate of death is more than double that of pre-pandemic years, leading to hospitals, funeral homes, and crematoriums exceeding capacity without the ability to process the backlog of cases," South Coast AQMD said in a statement.  And its order says there's another surge of deaths that's approaching, fueled by the gatherings that took place over the New Year's holiday. The emergency order will be in effect for 10 days and can be extended, the agency said.  Los Angeles County health officials reported Sunday more than 13,800 people have died of Covid-19 since the pandemic's start and more than 7,400 remain hospitalized with the virus -- 23% of whom are in the ICU.  Late last week, county health officials said in a news release that both healthcare workers and ICU capacity remain "strained." "The most important action for everyone to take to stop the spread of COVID-19 and save lives is to stay home and not mingle with others not in your household," the release said.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

27 What you need to know about the new US Covid-19 test requirement for travelers
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_09f53ddeb6de5146e98443a174778ed4
(CNN) - Earlier this week, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that, as of Tuesday, January 26, all air passengers ages two and older must show proof of a negative Covid-19 test to enter the United States.   The new rule includes US citizens and legal permanent residents. Following the travel news, panic and confusion ensued, according to Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst and founder of Atmosphere Research Group. "The order created a lot of anxiety, partly because the timeline from the announcement to when it goes into effect is so short and partly because it was unclear exactly what it meant," he says. Both US residents who are currently abroad or had plans to go abroad and return January 26 or later as well as international travelers who are scheduled to fly to the United States have numerous questions about what they need to do to ensure their entry into the country, says Harteveldt.  In addition, some resorts and local governments are scrambling to get prepared to offer testing to US-bound fliers.  Questions --  from what kind of negative Covid-19 test you need to the documentation you're required to show when you're at the airport, and to whom -- are addressed below: US testing questions answered 
What kind of Covid-19 test is considered acceptable for travelers? Travelers bound for the United State on international flights must have a viral test, according to the CDC. PCR and antigen tests both qualify.  How far in advance can I get tested before entering the country? The test time frame is no more than three days before your flight.  CDC spokesperson Caitlin Shockey says that if you are flying on a connecting flight into the US, a valid test is one that is taken no more than three days before your flight departs to the United States but only if the entire trip was booked under a single passenger record. Also, each layover between those connections can't be longer than 24 hours.  If your connecting flight to the US was booked separately or you have a longer connection, you need to get tested within the three days before your final flight departs for the US. If you are flying out of the country for less than three days, you can take a test in the US before you depart and use it for your return or take a rapid test before your return flight.  If your flight is delayed past the three-day window, you must take another test to board your flight.  What happens if I'm traveling internationally now and come back after January 26? It doesn't matter when you left, according to Shockey: If you are returning to the US on or after January 26, you will have to be tested and show proof of being Covid-19 negative before being allowed to board. I'm visiting a US territory, do I need to get tested? No. US territories and possessions of the US are exempt, according to the CDC. If I'm a US resident and have to pay for a test while I'm abroad, will my health insurance cover it?  It depends on your insurance plan, says Zach Honig, the editor at large of the travel site The Points Guy. But Honig says that you should definitely file for reimbursement. "It never hurts to ask," he says.  Who is checking test results at the airport? It depends on the destination, but you'll likely be asked for documentation of a negative test result from the first airline employee you have contact with when you're at the airport, says Harteveldt.  That could be at the ticket counter if you're checking in bags or with the gate agent if you have no checked bags.  Airlines must confirm the negative test result for all passengers before boarding and must deny boarding to anyone who doesn't provide documentation of a negative test or documentation of having recovered from Covid-19, according to the CDC.  Honig says that the new mandate may mean that you won't be able to check in online for your flight to the US. "You'll have to check in at the airport, so be sure to arrive in advance to give yourself enough time to do so," he says.   I'm flying to the US by private plane. Does this new requirement apply to me? Yes, the order applies to commercial and private flights, according to the CDC.  What kind of documentation do I need to show?  The CDC is requiring fliers to have a paper or electronic copy of their negative test results.  Harteveldt highly recommends that travelers have a hard copy of their negative test results as opposed to having them only on their phones.  "It may be difficult for an agent to read the document on your phone, and you don't want to give them an excuse not to board you," he says. I already had Covid-19. What kind of documentation do I need?  If you've recovered from Covid-19 within the past three months, you will need both proof that you tested positive in the past three months before your flight and a letter from your doctor stating that you're cleared for travel.   If you recovered from the virus more than three months ago, the CDC's Shockey says that you will need to retest and show proof of negative results before being allowed to board your plane. I've gotten the Covid-19 vaccine. Do I still need to test? Yes, the same requirements apply.  How do I find a local testing site while I'm abroad? It will vary by country, but Honig strongly recommends making sure that you'll be able to get a test at your destination before you leave the US. "It can be challenging in some places to get tested, so it's important to get confirmation of a place before your trip," he says. You can find a testing location by asking your hotel in advance of your trip or checking the destination's official tourism site.  In addition, in the past week, a growing number of hotels, especially in destinations that are popular with American travelers, have started to offer on-site testing.   In St. Lucia, for example, more than 20 properties and villas will offer free rapid testing.  Baha Mar in the Bahamas has rapid tests for $25 and PCR tests for $125. At La Colección Resorts throughout the Dominican Republic and Mexico, rapid testing is free. And at Curtain Bluff in Antigua, testing is $250 a person for either PCR or rapid test results.  The return time for test results varies by property. Are airlines allowing passengers to change their flights so that they can arrive in the US before the testing requirements take effect?  Some are allowing free changes including waiving the difference in fare. Delta, for example, is waiving the fare difference through February 9 for customers who were booked to travel internationally to the US through February 9, if they rebook their trip to begin on or before January 25. American Airlines and United Airlines are also waiving the fare difference for customers because of the new requirements.  With American, customers who have flights scheduled from January 12 to February 9 can rebook for no charge if they're departing from and arriving into the destinations on their original ticket. However, their trips must start on or before January 25. With United, the fare difference will be waived for fliers rebooking international tickets purchased on or before January 12 for scheduled travel to the US through February 15. My test result came back positive. Now what? Shockey says that you should self-isolate and delay travel if symptoms develop or a predeparture test result is positive until you recover from Covid-19.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

28 Coronavirus will knock more than a year off average US life expectancy, study finds
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_1a499890b0f203a6b815c5ad1e8c0103
(CNN) - The coronavirus pandemic is not only having an immediate impact in terms of the deaths of thousands of Americans, it's also taking more than a year off the average US life expectancy.  A new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences projects that Covid-19 will reduce US life expectancy in 2020 by 1.13 years, with a disproportionate number of deaths occurring among Black and Latino populations. When combined with provisional estimates of US death rates for the first half of the year, the data show a clear rise in the mortality rate as the pandemic took hold of the nation. Covid-19 disproportionately affecting minorities "Estimated reductions for the Black and Latino populations are three to four times that for Whites. Consequently, Covid-19 is expected to reverse over 10 years of progress made in closing the Black−White gap in life expectancy and reduce the previous Latino mortality advantage by over 70%," according to the researchers of the study, Theresa Andrasfay of the University of Southern California and Noreen Goldman of Princeton University's Office of Population Research. "Black and Latino Americans have experienced a disproportionate burden of Covid-19 morbidity and mortality, reflecting persistent structural inequalities that increase risk of exposure to Covid-19 and mortality risk for those infected," the study added. Prior to the pandemic, the US had been making steady progress in terms of life expectancy although it had slowed down in recent years. Life expectancy increased by nearly 10 years over the last half century -- from 69.9 years in 1959, to 78.9 years in 2016. After 2010, life expectancy plateaued and in 2014 it began reversing, dropping for three consecutive years -- from 78.9 years in 2014, to 78.6 in 2017. Drug overdoses, suicides, alcohol-related illnesses and obesity were largely to blame for this.  But the pandemic has set back all that progress, and also widened the gap between Black−White life expectancy.  "The Black and Latino populations are estimated to experience declines in life expectancy at birth of 2.10 and 3.05 years, respectively, both of which are several times the 0.68-year reduction for Whites. These projections imply an increase of nearly 40% in the Black−White life expectancy gap, from 3.6 years to over 5 years, thereby eliminating progress made in reducing this differential since 2006," the study added. CDC: US mortality rate rose significantly in second quarter New data from the National Center for Health Statistics suggests that Covid-19 caused a significant jump in mortality in the US.  The age-adjusted all-cause mortality rate was 769 per 100,000 in the first quarter of 2020 and rose to 840 in the second quarter of the year. Comparatively, the death rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 702 per 100,000, the NCHS said. While the report shows mortality rose significantly in 2020, it provides an incomplete snapshot of the pandemic since data for only the first two quarters are currently available.  Last week, CDC statisticians said Covid-19 was likely the third leading cause of death in 2020. They estimated there were between 316,252 and 431,792 excess deaths in all of 2020.  Heart disease is the top killer and cancer is the second leading cause of death in the US.  These estimates are based on all death records received and processed by NCHS as of November 27, 2020.  A multi-year effect Andrasfay and Goldman's study used Census Bureau data and data on actual and projected deaths from the pandemic of the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation and the National Center for Health Statistics. They also used various models and estimates for mortality rates. "Our medium estimate indicates a reduction in US life expectancy at birth of 1.13 years to 77.48 years, lower than any year since 2003," they said. "This impact is about 10 times as large as the worrisome annual decreases several years ago that were attributed largely to drug overdoses, other external causes, and respiratory and cardiovascular diseases," the study added.  The US is already behind other wealthy countries in terms of life expectancy and the pandemic will worsen it.  "The US reduction in 2020 life expectancy is projected to exceed that of most other high-income countries, indicating that the United States -- which already had a life expectancy below that of all other high-income developed nations prior to the pandemic -- will see its life expectancy fall even farther behind its peers," the study said. The effects of the pandemic are expected to last well beyond 2020.  "Some reduction in life expectancy may persist beyond 2020 because of continued Covid-19 mortality and long-term health, social, and economic impacts of the pandemic," the study added. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

29 Steve Martin has 'Good news/Bad news' about getting vaccinated
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_a2da7816decf1a048316e4f0ba5bab93
(CNN) - Steve Martin is apparently a half full-half empty kind of guy. The comedic actor tweeted Sunday about receiving a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and displayed his tendency toward the middle ground. Martin started out by writing "Good news/Bad news." "Good news: I just got vaccinated!" he wrote. "Bad news: I got it because I'm 75. Ha!" "The Jerk" star went on to say, "The operation in NYC was smooth as silk" and "hosted to perfection by the US Army and National Guard." He thanked everyone, including science. Martin later answered a follower's question about how he secured the shot. "I signed up ON line through an NYC dot gov website (sorry I don't have the exact site), and waited IN line at the Javits Center," he tweeted.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

30 The White House's latest excuse for Trump's silence on the Capitol attack is the worst yet
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_8341fc22f29bb547048af41631e3f608
(CNN) - President Donald Trump's egging on of rioters before the storming of the US Capitol -- and his silence as that mob overran the building -- was a deeply injurious moment for the country and a dark mark on his legacy. And it was all social media's fault... That last bit is according to Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman who said this on Fox News Sunday while defending the President's lack of leadership in those key moments as the rioters took the Capitol:  "On one hand, he should be censored by Big Tech and not be allowed to talk, he also shouldn't say anything because it's divisive?" Gidley said. "And then when he doesn't say anything and can't say anything because the platforms have removed him, they say, 'Where's the President?'" Huh! So, Trump's deplatforming by Twitter and Facebook made it impossible for him to address the American public -- and the rioters? Interesting!   Especially because the deplatforming came AFTER the January 6 riots. Facebook banned Trump from posting on its site on January 7. Twitter followed suit on January 8. Trump, in fact, posted several videos during and after the riots -- in which he offered a lukewarm urging for the demonstrators to disperse while telling them "we love you, you're very special." But let's put aside for a minute the fact that Gidley seems very confused about the timing of the deplatforming of his boss. The President of the United States has the largest bullhorn of any person in the country -- and maybe the world. If Trump's administration reached out to the TV networks at any point on January 6 and said he wanted to address the country, he could have. He didn't ask. He could have also given the networks a 15-minute heads up and gone to the White House briefing room and made a statement. That, too, would have received wall-to-wall coverage on every radio and TV station -- not to mention every newspaper and all over social media. He didn't do that. What Gidley -- and, by extension, Trump -- is engaging in is a classic bit of scapegoating. Remember that Trump is fundamentally unable to ever blame himself for anything. And so, in the wake of the disastrous and dangerous events of January 6, he and his cronies are trying to foist the blame on the forces of so-called "Big Tech" that deplatformed Trump after he repeatedly failed to issue a forceful condemnation of the rioters. It's bunk. All of it.  And what's worse is that Gidley (and Trump) know it. Even if Trump had been deplatformed by Twitter and Facebook prior to January 6, there would have been a slew of ways that the President of the United States could find to communicate with the American public if he had wanted to do so.  Leadership isn't about scapegoating and making dumb excuses. It's about showing the public the right way to act and to treat each other -- especially in moments like on January 6 when so many of our fellow Americans were behaving so badly. But Gidley's excuses are in keeping with the fundamental failure of Trump's administration: An utter and total abdication of the moral leadership required of a president. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

31 America almost lost its democracy. Here's how we stop that from happening again
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_98167e7ca994e25bfae7c603577c3ec1
Editor's Note: Jim Himes, a Democrat, represents Connecticut's 4th District in the US House of Representatives. The views expressed here are solely his. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN) - As we swear in a new President and look to a new era in Washington DC, a cloud of anger and fear hangs over America after pro-Trump insurrectionists stormed the US Capitol. President-elect Joe Biden has big plans and a serious mandate, but he will have to govern a divided nation, one that was nearly torn apart by a mob hellbent on destroying it. I talk to US Rep. Jim Himes of Connecticut and CNN Senior Political Analyst David Gergen about what comes next for America's fragile democracy. But first, Rep. Himes writes this week's CNN op-ed. --SE Cupp On January 6, America almost lost its democracy. I was in the House chamber as officers piled furniture in front of doors and pointed their weapons at insurrectionists intent on tearing down humankind's most recognized temple to self-government.   I've been thinking about a quote attributed to Benjamin Franklin, where he tells a group of citizens that the Constitutional Convention delegates have crafted a republic "if you can keep it." He didn't say "if we can keep it," referring to his fellow Founders in Independence Hall. He put the burden on the citizens in the street in 18th century Philadelphia: "if you can keep it."   Make no mistake. We elected officials have immense work to do. Americans have near record levels of distrust for their government, some so much that they would violently try to tear it down. Joe Biden, our President-elect, must address this bleak reality in everything he says and does. He must demand accountability for those who would seek to destroy us, even as he welcomes all those who long for a less divided nation.   He and Congress must end the ideology-fueled gridlock that prevents progress on the problems that besiege Americans every day. For years, the federal government has been largely immobile on crumbling infrastructure, climate change, gun violence, systemic racism and receding economic opportunity. We must do something novel: listen, compromise and solve problems.   We also need to change the way we talk about who we are and what we do. Most Republicans, by knowingly repeating lies and madcap conspiracy theories, nurtured the lethal Trump insurrection. Even today, many seemed more outraged at their loss of Twitter followers than at the violence that killed five Americans, threatened their lives and laid waste to their workplace.   And while the Republican Party has gone to a uniquely dark place, Democrats have some soul searching to do as well. On Election Day, more than 74 million Americans looked at our candidate, a profoundly decent man of integrity, empathy and experience, and chose instead four more years of President Donald Trump.   Many of us win elections by trashing the institution we desperately want to join. We campaign on draining the swamp, destroying the establishment, ending business-as-usual -- and then we're puzzled when we return home to rage and suspicion. Worse, and fatally, too many of us tell the American people that the opposition is not just wrong, but evil, immoral and a threat to the country.  And let's be clear: There's a short fuse between Republican cries of election fraud and a police officer being beaten by an angry pro-Trump mob on the Capitol's steps.   But back to Franklin's "you." I'm convinced that whether or not we keep our democracy -- Franklin's republic -- is in fact up to you. Government of, by and for the people is not some happy gift of history. It is a challenge to each of us. It imposes obligations and duties, many of which are neither comfortable nor intuitive.    As broken glass is swept from the floors of the Capitol, we must decide now whether we will be worthy citizens or passive consumers, repeatedly doping ourselves with posts and memes that scratch our itches and fire up our tribes. Do we grapple with the messiness of complicated reality, or do we close our minds to all but those facts that validate our beliefs?   Today we live in radically different media -- and social media -- universes. We can't debate policy because we don't agree on basic facts. One difference between a citizen and a political dope addict is that a citizen is open to learning and seeing reality from different points of view, whereas an addict only feeds his political point of view with reinforcing sources of information.  Ask yourself: Do you work every day to get ideas and information from responsible sources with which you disagree? Do you see inconvenient facts as opportunities to learn or as evidence of someone's ignorance or treason?   A commitment to citizenship also requires a firm rejection of those ridiculous two words: "both sides." That both sides "do it," whatever "it" may be, is an anesthetizing balm for tribalists faced with uncomfortable evidence of wrongdoing. Yes, violent protest is always wrong. And yes, both the right and left have risible activists who accept or promote it. But to equate violence by a small group of antifa protesters in Portland with a presidentially-instigated insurrection in Washington D.C. is not just wrong, it's madness.   A close cousin of the "both sides" opium poisoning our minds is whataboutism. Whataboutism holds no water as a moral defense when offered by toddlers battling for crayons. But it is now the go-to political get-out-of-jail-free card. For every clear breach of law or decency by Trump there is a bottomless inventory of transgressions by some Democrat to make everything right. Through some unholy alchemy, breaking a window in the Capitol is excused by a broken window in Portland.    No party or individual has a monopoly on sin or virtue.  After the Civil War, the Democratic Party worked to reestablish murderous White supremacy in the South. There were no "both sides." Meanwhile, last week, and over the last four years, the Republican Party supported and excused every anti-constitutional depredation of Trump, such as his desire to baselessly contest ballots that were lawfully cast and affirmed by the Electoral College, including on the very day of the insurrection. There were no "both sides."    That "they do it, too" is not a defense in kindergarten, in court or in the politics of a supposedly great democracy.   Finally, there is no better way to be a participant in our experiment in self-government than to actually get involved in it. Even if you're not thrilled by the details of school budgets or suburban zoning, the act of working with others on those things is an education that money can't buy. I've noticed that it is much easier to work in the Congress with colleagues who were mayors or governors, people who actually had to run police forces, organize garbage collection and get real things done in their communities. They understand the need to listen to all points of view and to craft a compromise.    Reflect on 5,000 years of recorded human history. I believe that the vast majority of humans who have ever lived would trade their stations to be a citizen of our democratic republic. It is a supremely valuable gift. If we do not actively burnish and cherish it, we will lose it.  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

32 Janet Yellen is heading to Congress. The stakes have never been higher
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_ae08fdc1bfb0b13af8cd6f94ddd7c37d
London  (CNN Business) - Janet Yellen, the former chair of the Federal Reserve and President-elect Joe Biden's pick to lead the Treasury Department, faces a huge task ahead. What's happening: Not only does Yellen have to shepherd efforts to bring the US economy back from its sharpest contraction on record — she must also convince Congress to get on board with Biden's $1.9 trillion stimulus package, as some lawmakers balk at the price tag. Yellen will make her first big pitch on Tuesday when she testifies before the Senate Finance Committee.  "When economists look back on the pandemic, I expect they'll conclude that Congress' actions averted a lot of suffering," Yellen is set to tell lawmakers, according to written testimony obtained by CNN Business. "But more must be done. Economists don't always agree, but I think there is a consensus now: Without further action, we risk a longer, more painful recession now — and long-term scarring of the economy later." Wall Street expects that Congress will back the Biden administration in passing another sizable relief bill, with millions of Americans still unemployed and new jobless claims on the rise. But scale could be a major sticking point, with Biden's team pushing for additional $1,400 stimulus checks, aid for state and local governments and a wave of funding for Covid-19 vaccination and testing.  One of Yellen's biggest challenges will be persuading more conservative lawmakers that the benefits of adding to America's $27 trillion debt load will outweigh the costs. "Neither the President-elect, nor I, propose this relief package without an appreciation for the country's debt burden," Yellen's prepared testimony reads. "But right now, with interest rates at historic lows, the smartest thing we can do is act big." Yellen has a point: The United States can borrow for 10 years at roughly 1%, compared with about 3% when former President Barack Obama took office. But if interest rates were to rise, servicing the country's debt load could become trickier. Given Yellen's background at the Fed, she'll be able to speak to these issues — as well as any concerns about inflation triggered by additional spending — with authority. Investors will be listening. "Expect lots of questions about debt sustainability and the role the Fed will likely play in that," Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid said in a note to clients Tuesday. A personal note: Yellen, in her prepared remarks, also cites her "working class" background in Brooklyn, where her father, a doctor, used to treat people from the family's basement. "He was the kind of doctor who treated the whole patient," her prepared remarks read. "He knew about their lives; about when they'd been fired or couldn't pay. Those remain some of the clearest moments in my childhood." Bank earnings mix optimism with uncertainty Bank earnings indicate that prospects for the economy are expected to improve later this year. The latest: JPMorgan Chase — which reported a record profit of $12.1 billion for the fourth quarter on Friday — said it had released $2.9 billion in reserves it had earmarked to cover bad loans. That's a sign that the bank thinks the economic situation is poised to get better, not worse, thanks to vaccination programs and stimulus. In a conference call with reporters, CEO Jamie Dimon that the country could have a "very healthy economy" by the summer — especially if unemployed Americans and small businesses "who desperately need help" get more stimulus payments from the incoming Biden administration and Congress. However, he emphasized that plenty of unknowns remain. The bank still has credit reserves of more than $30 billion as a cushion in case conditions deteriorate. And outside of mortgages, which are experiencing a pandemic boom, lending to consumers remains muted. Investor insight: JPMorgan's results looked better to investors than those from Citigroup and Wells Fargo. Attention now turns to Bank of America and Goldman Sachs, which release results on Tuesday.  Goldman may be the one to watch given how busy investment bankers were last quarter. Companies are rushing to raise capital as they gear up for the next phase of the business cycle. Trading revenue also looks healthy.  China's weak growth is the envy of the world If you were to grade the world's biggest economies on a curve, China would be top of the class. The world's second largest economy expanded 2.3% in 2020 compared to a year earlier, according to government statistics released Monday, my CNN Business colleague Laura He reports. It's China's slowest annual growth rate in decades. Not since 1976 has the country had a worse year, when GDP shrunk 1.6% during a time of social and economic tumult. But compared to other major world economies, which were plunged into deep and prolonged recessions, China has come out on top. The expansion also beat estimates. The International Monetary Fund, for example, predicted that China's economy would grow 1.9% in 2020. It's the only major world economy the IMF expected to grow at all. Big picture: Economists say momentum from China's economy will be crucial to power a global recovery in 2021. On that front, too, there was good news: GDP grew 6.5% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago, faster than the  4.9% growth logged during the third quarter. The data underscores some problems that may lie ahead, however. Industrial production has jumped, while retail sales remain fragile. That raises the question: Has the pandemic has sidetracked China's efforts to shift its economy from one reliant on manufacturing to one more driven by consumer spending? If so, what will that mean for long-term prospects for growth? Up next Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Charles Schwab and State Street report results before US markets open. Netflix follows after the close. Also today: Janet Yellen's confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee kicks off at 10 a.m. ET. Coming tomorrow: Results from Morgan Stanley and Procter & Gamble. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

33 Joe Biden's Ronald Reagan problem
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_3fb1132fe46c5cd181f65acbf52033ab
Editor's Note: Jeffrey D. Sachs is a professor and director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University. The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author; view more opinion on CNN. (CNN) - President-elect Joe Biden is inheriting a national crisis that has built up over 40 years. On January 20, 1981, former President Ronald Reagan took the US on a radical course when he declared in his inaugural address, "In the present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem." He set out to weaken the federal government by slashing taxes on the rich, dismantling regulations, cutting back on public programs and turning many of the nation's problems back to the states.  President Donald Trump continued this approach -- passing massive tax cuts in 2017, and then when calamity hit with Covid-19 in 2020, placing the burden of response on the states. It is Biden's historic task to reverse Reagan's -- and Trump's -- reckless radicalism.  Reagan won the presidency in 1980, in part, because of two actions by Democratic presidents that had brought an end to the national consensus in favor of activist government that began with Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal of the 1930s and lasted through the 1960s.    The first action that ended the consensus was profoundly moral. Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson both backed the Civil Rights Movement's call to dismantle America's racist policies, including the segregation of housing, schools and places of public accommodation, and the systemic denial of voting rights to African Americans, which had prevailed since the end of Reconstruction. They did so in the face of intense opposition by segregationist Southern Democrats -- and knowing that their actions could split their own party. The result was a furious backlash of White working-class voters that swept Richard Nixon into office in 1968 with the help of the "Southern Strategy," a new Republican strategy to court disgruntled Southern White voters. These White voters thereafter strongly supported politicians like Nixon and Reagan who promised to cutback the enforcement powers of the federal government and stop federal programs on jobs, housing and community development that would undermine continued segregation at the local level.     The second action was profoundly immoral. Johnson escalated the Vietnam War even though he knew the war was conducted on the basis of lies and deception. Johnson's decision was also politically disastrous because the war spending ramped up inflation and bitterly divided the nation. During his first term, Nixon further escalated the war and the inflation and unleashed years of monetary instability that lasted through the presidency of Jimmy Carter. When inflation reach 13.5% in 1980, Carter was defeated by Reagan in November that year.   Reagan claimed that he wanted to stop deficit spending, but his 1981 tax cuts increased the deficits (from 2.5% of GDP in 1981 to 5.9% of GDP in 1983), as did the 2001 tax cut under former President George W. Bush and the 2017 tax cut under Trump. Over time, the various tax cuts were not matched by offsetting spending cuts, since broad areas of federal spending were -- and continue to be -- very strongly backed by the public. In fact, according to the Pew Research Center, in 2019, there were strong majorities supporting increased government spending on many domestic priorities, including education, infrastructure and the environment.   The result has been a massive buildup of federal government debt, which was also stoked by the 2008 financial crisis and the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic. The federal debt owed to the public was 25% of GDP when Reagan took office. It was around 98% of GDP at the end of 2020, and will likely soar further because of further urgent spending related to Covid-19.   The bottom line is that the US has very low taxation as a share of GDP (in fact, the lowest among all high-income countries in the OECD except Ireland), insufficient public services, decrepit infrastructure, and massive debts and deficits -- all at the same time!   The states are not able to step in by providing more local services and infrastructure neglected by the federal government. States compete with each other by slashing taxes to attract investments away from other states. Only the federal government has the power to raise adequate tax revenues to meet the public's needs for healthcare, education, job training, research and development, infrastructure and other needs.   As the federal debt has grown -- and many states have struggled -- one part of American society has laughed all the way to the bank. The wealthy funders of both parties -- Wall Street financiers, big oilmen, Silicon Valley gurus, real estate developers, private-prison owners, etc. -- couldn't believe their good fortunes in receiving repeated tax breaks and even the deregulation of their polluting activities. The rich got richer year after year, while working class Whites and African Americans, social conservatives and social liberals, evangelicals and atheists, waged the pitched battle for the nation's soul.   Reagan's failed radicalism has now run its course, and the United States, while culturally as divided as ever, is at an economic and environmental precipice.  Real hourly wages for the median male worker (at the 50th percentile of the earnings distribution) fell 3% between 1979 and 2019. Student debts are $1.68 trillion, owed by an astounding 44.7 million borrowers. And climate change has plunged the nation into crises of mega-forest fires, coastal flooding, extreme storms, droughts and heatwaves. The year 2020 tied for the world's warmest on record, an astounding 1.25° Celsius above the pre-industrial temperature -- with worse to come.    Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the rich have gotten much richer. Over 150 of the richest Americans, who number among the world's richest 500 people, now have a combined wealth of $3 trillion, which is up by over $600 billion from the start of 2020. With Covid-19, the very richest Americans hit the jackpot, with their wealth soaring as the result of Federal Reserve liquidity, huge budget outlays and their ownership of the digital platform monopolies on which much of the economy now operates.     The Biden administration must now find a recovery path out of the wreckage of four decades of Reagan radicalism and the politics it created.  Reagan got us stuck on the ideas that "government is the problem," cuts in federal tax cuts are necessary, environmental regulations are problematic and major national problems can be left to the states and cities. These ideas, alas, are wrong, even though they are widely believed and were politically convenient for those who disliked the federal government's policies to end racial segregation.     Americans have learned, the painful way, that we need an effective federal government. Just as states and cities could not contain Covid-19 when the federal government shirked its duties, we will also continue to fail to create enough decent jobs, educate our children, ensure safe water for our farms and cities, protect the health of Americans, face the climate emergency and modernize our infrastructure, until we mobilize the federal government to act on behalf of all Americans and all parts of our nation.    Next in the series: What Biden's economic rescue plan needs to do  © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

34 Trump's transformative Supreme Court legacy
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_b57f81d2b63f976638cbd624183954ba
(CNN) - President Donald Trump will exit the White House on Wednesday but leave behind three of the nine Supreme Court justices and a majority that was willing to partner with him for much of his agenda.   Trump's imprint on the Supreme Court and overall three-tier federal judiciary represents one of the most significant right-wing successes of his tenure, even as his instigation of the US Capitol assault and final destructive days appear to be leaving the most indelible mark of his legacy.  With forceful leadership from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senate Republicans enabled Trump to make lifetime appointments to nearly 30% of the 870-seat federal bench. A majority of the powerful US appellate courts are now dominated by Republican appointees.  At the Supreme Court, the Trump administration won more than it lost during the past four years, largely prevailing as it argued against immigrants' rights and for corporate interests. The conservative majority endorsed Trump's rush to execute 13 federal defendants in recent months and last week reinstated restrictions on women trying to obtain a prescribed abortion drug.  The justices also have delayed for months action on the latest chapter of a Manhattan district attorney's long-pending subpoena for Trump tax returns.   The Supreme Court and lower US court judges, however, failed to give Trump what he desired most at the end. They swatted away his attempts to discard valid 2020 presidential election results. For that, Trump called the Supreme Court "totally incompetent and weak."  One person who stood between Trump and more sweeping success was Chief Justice John Roberts. The administration lost major cases at the Supreme Court when Roberts gave his decisive vote to the liberal side of the bench.  Still, Roberts often afforded the administration some measure of victory even in its losing cases, such as a broader reading of executive discretion under the Administrative Procedure Act, or a chance to return with stronger arguments.   When the administration tried to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census and wanted to end the Obama-era "Dreamers" program for undocumented immigrants who came to the US as minors, the Trump arguments were hurt by contrived and flawed justifications as much as anything.   Trump responded to the Roberts' opinion in the dispute over the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals by saying, "Do you get the impression that the Supreme Court doesn't like me."  Conservative plan to save vacancies for Trump works out  Trump and conservative advocates effectively triumphed on a goal dating to the 2016 election campaign when Trump took the unorthodox step of issuing a list of possible candidates for the high court, and McConnell ensured that the vacancy caused by that February's death of Justice Antonin Scalia was waiting for the new president.    Just days after taking office in January 2017, Trump nominated US appeals court Judge Neil Gorsuch to fill the Scalia vacancy.  The next year, Trump appointed Brett Kavanaugh to succeed Justice Anthony Kennedy, who retired after 30 years on the bench. Four months ago, a new vacancy suddenly appeared with the September 18 death of prominent liberal Ruth Bader Ginsburg, for whom Trump chose Amy Coney Barrett.  McConnell had also stalled on Obama lower court nominations in 2016, ensuring that about 100 lower court vacancies also awaited Trump in 2017. After four years, the President has filled 177 of the 682 district court judgeships (26%) and 54 of the 179 appeals court judgeships (30%), according data compiled by the Brookings Institution's Russell Wheeler.  When Trump first came to office, four of the 13 US appeals courts had Republican majorities, Wheeler said, and today, seven of the 13 are now dominated by GOP appointees. These regional appeals courts usually have the last word on legal disputes because the Supreme Court accepts fewer than 1% of the petitions that arrive at its door.    SCOTUS backs Trump's legal agenda   Of cases that were heard by the justices, Trump generally saw bigger victories at the start of its tenure than the finish, beginning with the June 2018 decision that upheld Trump's travel ban. In a 5-4 opinion written by Roberts, the majority called Trump's order "an act that is well within executive authority and could have been taken by any other President."   Over protests from dissenting liberals to consider Trump's anti-Muslim rhetoric, Roberts wrote in Trump v. Hawaii that the court must consider "the authority of the Presidency itself."  In a case that drew far less attention but reinforced the Trump agenda limiting eligibility for asylum in the US, the justices in June curtailed court review for asylum seekers in an expedited removal process who claim they cannot return home because they have a credible fear of torture or death. The administration won several major cases favoring employers over labor. In one of the most contentious, the five-justice bloc on the right in 2018 reversed a 1977 ruling that had allowed states to require employees who declined to join a union to pay "fair share" fees to finance bargaining for pay and benefits but not political activities.  "Big loss for the coffers of the Democrats!" Trump wrote on Twitter after the ruling. Equally consequential were some decisions that arose through Trump requests on the so-called "shadow docket," which were never fully briefed and heard in oral arguments.  Department of Justice lawyers repeatedly persuaded the conservative majority to block adverse lower court orders that would have prevented the administration from enforcing its initiatives while legal challenges were pending.  The justices by 5-to-4 votes, conservatives over liberals, let Trump divert funds to build the wall at the US southern border; to institute a new rule disadvantaging green-card applicants who seek food stamps and other public assistance; and, most recently, to reinstate a Food and Drug Administration requirement that women prescribed mifepristone, to end a pregnancy in its early weeks, pick up the pill in person at a hospital or clinic despite the Covid-19 pandemic.  Trump's taxes and financial documents One of Trump's most conspicuous losses appeared, at the time, to be July 2020 rulings rejecting his attempt to block subpoenas from US House committees and the Manhattan district attorney for his personal business records.  But the compromise 7-2 court decisions offered Trump additional ways to fight the subpoenas, and by the end of 2020 Trump had relinquished none of the disputed financial documents.  The decision in Trump v. Vance regarding a Manhattan grand jury's subpoena had appeared most lethal to Trump's desire to keep records secret. Reaching back 200 years in court history, Roberts wrote, "No citizen, not even the president, is categorically above the common duty to produce evidence when called upon in a criminal proceeding."  After that July 9 decision on the subpoena directed to Trump's accounting firm, Mazars USA, lower court judges reviewed new Trump defenses that the subpoena was overly broad and issued in bad faith.  The Trump claims were again spurned, and in October the 2nd US Circuit Court of Appeals wrote that "there is nothing to suggest that these are anything but run-of-the-mill documents typically relevant to a grand jury investigation into possible financial or corporate misconduct."  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance has been seeking the financial records as he investigates any Trump or Trump Organization involvement in "hush money" payments to women who alleged sexual affairs with him during the 2016 presidential campaign. Trump has denied the affairs.  Trump's lawyers in October asked the Supreme Court to postpone the effect of the Second Circuit decision and hear the merits of their defense. Vance's lawyers countered, "This litigation has already substantially hampered the grand jury's investigation."  For the past three months, the justices have not acted -- with no public explanation.  Despite his many victories and what will be a transformative legacy, Trump, of course, always wanted more and suggested he was being denied the respect he deserved. Last July, when the Supreme Court spurned Trump's immunity claim and sent the Vance case back to lower courts, Trump wrote on Twitter, "I have to keep fighting in a politically corrupt New York. Not fair to this Presidency or Administration! .... Courts in the past have given 'broad deference.' BUT NOT ME!" © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

35 A four-year timeline of Donald Trump and the Supreme Court
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_f699ea8abeec2c409621ef2b94126956
(CNN) - Here's a timeline of key events involving Trump and the Supreme Court over the past four years: 2017  Jan. 20: Chief Justice John Roberts administers the oath of office to President Donald Trump, who swears to "preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States."    Jan. 27: Trump signs an executive order for a new travel ban, a key provision of which bars foreigners from seven countries, most of them majority-Muslim.    Jan. 31: Trump nominates Neil Gorsuch, a judge on a Denver-based US appeals court, for the Supreme Court vacancy that has been open since Justice Antonin Scalia died in February 2016.    Feb. 3: US District Court James Robart temporarily blocks the Muslim travel ban. The next day, Trump calls Robart a "so-called judge" and says, "if something happens blame him and the court system." (Litigation over the travel ban continues, and the administration twice amends the order before the case reaches the Supreme Court.)    March 16: Appeals court Judge Jay Bybee, an appointee of President George W. Bush, implicitly calls out Trump's tirade against Robart and other judges: "The personal attacks on the distinguished district judge (Robart) and our colleagues were out of all bounds of civic and persuasive discourse -- particularly when they came from the parties. ... Such personal attacks treat the court as though it were merely a political forum in which bargaining, compromise, and even intimidation are accepted principles."    April 7: The Senate confirms Gorsuch by a 54-45 vote after Senate Republicans abolished the 60-vote threshold that had been needed to cut off a Democratic filibuster.    2018  April-June: Supreme Court sides with the Trump administration's position in a series of 5-4 decisions favoring employers over workers, including to stop states from requiring "fair share" union fees from non-members to pay for collective bargaining on pay and benefits; by the same 5-4 vote, the justices uphold an Ohio voter purge law.     June 26: The most prominent case of the session, Trump v. Hawaii, also breaks along those 5-4 lines, as the five-justice conservative majority upholds the third iteration of the Trump travel ban. Roberts says Trump's order "is an act that is well within executive authority and could have been taken by any other President." He brushes aside dissenting justices' reminders of Trump's anti-Muslim rhetoric and says the court must consider "the authority of the Presidency itself."    June 27: Justice Anthony Kennedy, a 1988 appointee of President Ronald Reagan, announces his retirement.    July 9: Trump nominates appeals court Judge Brett Kavanaugh to succeed Kennedy.    Oct. 6: The Senate confirms Kavanaugh in a 50-48 vote following weeks of partisan divisions, including over claims by a California psychology professor, Christine Blasey Ford, that he sexually assaulted her when they were both teenagers.     Oct. 8: Trump holds a ceremonial investiture for Kavanaugh in the White House's East Room, at which he apologizes to Kavanaugh on behalf of the nation, saying, "You, sir, under historic scrutiny, were proven innocent." That misstates the situation. Kavanaugh denied all allegations but no trial or hearing on the charges was held and the claims were neither conclusively validated nor rejected.    Nov. 21: After Trump disparages a judge who ruled against the administration in an asylum dispute as an "Obama judge," Chief Justice Roberts issues a rare and striking response that begins, "We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges."     2019  January: Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg misses a two-week sitting of oral arguments after she is treated for lung cancer; two cancerous nodules were removed from her lung in late December.  Jan. 22: The Supreme Court lets the Trump administration ban most transgender people from serving in the military by a 5-4 vote along conservative-liberal lines. Trump had announced the ban via Twitter in July 2017.   Feb. 19: Ginsburg returns to the bench to participate in the most important cases of the annual session, over partisan gerrymandering and the 2020 census questionnaire.    June 27: Chief Justice Roberts sides with the court's four liberals to effectively end the Trump administration's attempt to add a citizenship question to the census. At the same time, Roberts casts the fifth vote with conservatives and writes the opinion declaring that federal judges may not resolve challenges to partisan gerrymanders.    July 26: The Supreme Court lets the Trump administration redirect $2.5 billion in Pentagon funds to begin building a wall at the southern border, by a 5-4 vote controlled by the conservative majority.    Dec. 13: The Supreme Court agrees to take up long-running disputes over subpoenas for Trump tax records and other financial documents on the same day that a Democratic-led US House committee votes articles of impeachment against Trump. The full House impeaches Trump later in December.     Dec. 31: As part of his year-end report, Chief Justice Roberts writes, "We should celebrate our strong and independent judiciary, a key source of national unity and stability. But we should also remember that justice is not inevitable."    2020  Jan. 21 to Feb. 5: Chief Justice Roberts presides over the US Senate trial of Trump. The Republican-led Senate easily acquits Trump on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.     February: A Supreme Court dispute over a new rule for green-card applications prompts Trump's ire, although the administration prevailed. After the five-just conservative bloc let the Trump administration enforce a new "public charge" rule immigrants who might need food stamps or other public benefits, Justice Sonia Sotomayor dissents, pointing up the majority's pattern of siding with the administration. Trump lashes out on Twitter against Sotomayor and Ginsburg.    June 18: Chief Justice Roberts breaks with his conservative brethren and joins the four liberals to reject Trump's effort to roll back the Obama-era DACA program for undocumented immigrants who came to the US as minors. Trump tweets: "Do you get the impression that the Supreme Court doesn't like me?"    July 9: By a pair of 7-2 votes, the Supreme Court rejects Trump's arguments to keep his finances secret in the face of subpoenas from US House committees and the Manhattan district attorney. But the compromise court decisions give Trump additional ways to fight the subpoenas. Trump leaves office having relinquished none of the disputed financial documents.    Sept. 18: Justice Ginsburg dies, after months of struggles with cancer and other health problems.    Sept. 26: Trump nominates Amy Coney Barrett on September 26 in a Rose Garden ceremony that turns out to be a coronavirus "super-spreader" event.    Oct. 26: The Senate confirms Barrett on a 52-48 vote, along strictly partisan lines.     Oct. 26: The five-justice conservative majority declines to extend a deadline for mail-in ballots in Wisconsin. The decision reinforces a pattern of rejecting changes in absentee ballot deadlines and other election practices because of Covid-19.    Dec. 11: The nine justices unanimously reject a case brought by Texas and other Republican states challenging the Nov. 3 election results that showed Joe Biden beating Trump. The Texas attorney general had sued Pennsylvania and three other battleground states that Biden won. Trump backed the litigation with his own filing to the justices and called the case "the big one."      © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

36 Why Putin wants to keep Navalny locked up
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_edd73d7c66115177e505aadfce039685
Editor's Note: Michael Bociurkiw (@WorldAffairsPro) is a global affairs analyst and host of the podcast "Global Impact." He is a regular contributor to CNN Opinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. Read more opinion at CNN. (CNN) - With Alexei Navalny back in Russia five months after surviving a poisoning with the nerve agent Novichok, his courageous return presented Russian President Vladimir Putin -- who Navalny believes ordered his killing -- with two choices: allow the high-profile activist to continue to be a thorn in his side or lock him up in the hopes that he fades into obscurity.   We learned Sunday that Putin chose the second option. And the question now is whether Navalny's anti-corruption movement can survive with its incredibly telegenic and social media savvy leader isolated from the frontlines -- especially with factors like pandemic restrictions limiting public gatherings stacked against them.   We were also reminded, if we even needed it, of Putin's disdain for any form of dissent, his reflex to reach for the most barbaric tactics to silence voices of opposition. These certainly are not the hallmarks of a leader who seeks a place in history among the great statesmen of the world.   Unfortunately for Navalny, his brave gamble in going back to take on someone as ruthless as Putin appears to have been a miscalculation. The Russian leader can remain in office for years, cares little about the international opprobrium for his treatment of Navalny and no doubt expects little retaliation from a United States pre-occupied with the turmoil of Donald Trump's departure. That makes it unlikely to mean -- at least in the short term -- that Navalny's supporters can make a heroic return to the protest barricades.   Indeed, during a hastily arranged hearing on Monday at the Moscow police station where he is being held, Navalny was ordered to remain in custody for 30 days. In what can best be described as a sham trial, a judge was brought in, defense lawyers were not informed until the last minute and only pro-Kremlin journalists were allowed to attend. The prospects for the 44-year-old politician -- expected to be jailed for at least 3.5 years— do not look at all favorable.  Shortly before his arrest, he told journalists at Moscow's airport he was not afraid because "I know that I will leave and go home because I'm right and all the criminal cases against me are fabricated." Navalny probably wanted to end his stay abroad in order to avoid the risk of becoming irrelevant or being seen as a foreign-backed agent. Likely he had an eye on two things: the situation of Belarus opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who was forced to go into exile in Lithuania last August and remains outside of her country, and the fact that Russians -- as I am told by many contacts in the country -- rarely have sympathy for politicians who flee abroad (even though his departure from Russia last year was forced by his needing medical treatment after the poisoning attempt, which almost killed him). Putin, who typically refuses to acknowledge Navalny by name and has said that if Russian special services had wanted to kill Navalny they would have "finished it," probably wanted nothing more than to see the anti-corruption activist absent at least until later this year, after elections for the lower house of Parliament are held and where the ruling, pro-Putin United Russia party is hoping to be handed a loyal majority in the next State Duma. "This is the main political event of the year and the main reason to ensure his (Navalny's) absence," Russian political scientist and Chatham House Associate Fellow Ekaterina Schulmann told me Sunday.  At the time of his poisoning, Navalny, who refers to United Russia as the party "of crooks and thieves" was promoting a "Smart Voting" strategy that encourages voters to cast tactical ballots for any opposition candidates considered likely to unseat a ruling party member in regional and federal elections. The tactic was used effectively in Moscow last year. That, coupled with an ability to reach millions of supporters via social media and in a way which Putin and his cronies are unable to compete, presented a formidable challenge that the Kremlin could not ignore. Navalny's return home also comes at a time the Kremlin and its security services are likely still seething: Late last year, an investigation by CNN-Bellingcat revealed the complicity of Kremlin agents in the poisoning, with Navalny duping a Russian agent tailing him into discussing details of the poisoning.  To further complicate matters for Navalny and his movement, harsh Covid-19 restrictions in Russia make it difficult for large protests to take place. That, coupled with an economic downturn, essentially silenced Russia's protest movement throughout 2020. The pandemic situation in Russia is one of Putin's top problems at the moment. According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, Russia, with more than 3.5 million cases, has the fifth highest caseload in the world. (Though Russia's official reporting figures, especially on deaths, is said to be wildly inaccurate). A series of other economic headaches are hitting hard: plummeting global oil prices, the disruption to the completion of Russia's $11 billion Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project and punishing sanctions imposed after Russia illegally annexed Crimea in 2014 and invaded eastern Ukraine shortly afterward. An unpopular attempt in 2018 to raise the pension age infuriated many Russians and caused the ruling party's popularity to plummet. Putin may have wanted to sideline Navalny at a time when incoming US President Joe Biden is distracted by crises like Covid-19, domestic violence and the foreign policy fires lit by outgoing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo (Taiwan, Cuba, Sudan) in his final days in office. Russia is certainly on Biden's agenda, with his incoming National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan already signaling a more activist approach, calling the attacks on Navalny "not just a violation of human rights, but an affront to the Russian people who want their voices heard." But the new administration needs to play a more activist role. Biden needs to take this opportunity to forge a unified alliance among world leaders to confront Putin and renew pressure on him to lay off opposition leaders such as Navalny and Tikhanovskaya. And to do it before Putin takes any more outrageous steps against those who speak out in opposition to him. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

37 With Trump's exit, the Fox News presidency will come to an end
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_35a41d22096ef023640b429ae53159d0
(CNN Business) - A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here. Four years ago, Fox News headed into the Trump presidency with an unprecedented opportunity. It was not only the primary source of news for the Republican Party, but also the primary source for President Trump himself. The network could have used the opportunity to act responsibly. It could have leveraged its contacts within Trump's inner circle and the GOP to double down on reporting and break some real news. It could have — at the very least — delivered the cold hard truth to the millions who relied on it for accurate, reliable information. But it did none of those things. Instead, Fox chose to run in the opposite direction. The propagandists on the network were empowered like never before while the so-called "straight news" hours became Trumpier and Trumpier. Its hosts scored dozens of Trump interviews, but, in most cases, instead of pressing him with tough questions, they egged on his worst tendencies. Even when not talking directly with him, the hosts were speaking directly to him. And they egged on those poor tendencies by feeding him a steady diet of hyper-partisan stories and outright disinformation. While it is officially called the "Trump presidency," there is a good case to be made that it should be referred to as the "Fox News presidency." Now, that is all coming to an end. But it is important to realize that none of that had to happen. Rupert Murdoch, who has already earned more money than he can possibly know what to do with, could have put an end to it with a snap of a finger. He could have done this when his hosts lied about the Russia investigation and pushed "deep-state" nonsense. He could have done it when his hosts misled the American public about the coronavirus. He could have done it when the network's top personalities entertained wild conspiracy theories about the 2020 presidential election. He did not. Instead, Murdoch tweaked the network in another way. As Stelter reported earlier this month, Murdoch was personally involved in shaking up Fox's daytime lineup. That new lineup premiered on Monday. The biggest change? Replacing Martha MacCallum's newscast — which was already overtly conservative — with another right-wing talk show. More opinion, less news. Is MacCallum hosting a right-wing opinion show now? While MacCallum lost her 7pm time slot, she is now hosting at 3pm. The promos said she would bring her "unmatched perspective" to the daytime hour. If Monday's show was any indication, that "unmatched perspective" translates to a right-wing POV. For her debut at 3pm, MacCallum's guest list consisted of Sara Carter, Charlie Kirk, Alex Berenson, Geraldo Rivera, Rep. Nancy Mace, K.T. McFarland, Heather Higgins, and Stephanie Cutter. Which is to say her hour was ripe with pro-Trump pundits. And while Cutter was on her show, MacCallum's posture was adversarial, of course. Kilmeade plays the hits Brian Kilmeade on Monday became the first person to try out for host of "Fox News Primetime" — which, I feel obligated to note, is not actually in primetime given that primetime doesn't start until 8pm. Kilmeade played all the hits for the Fox audience. He led his show talking about censorship, moved on to fear-mongering about a migrant caravan heading toward the US border, and finished off a segment featuring Barstool's Dave Portnoy. It felt like Kilmeade's chief aim was to hit directly back at Newsmax's Greg Kelly, which has chipped away some of Fox's audience at 7pm, and earn some of that audience back... Will this call Fox's viewers back home? Fox is used to obnoxiously boasting that it dominates its competitors in the ratings. But right now, as Stelter wrote Friday, the channel is stuck in third place. The changes that were implemented Monday should be viewed through that frame. Will the shakeup bring Fox fans home? Also: More big changes are coming soon. Which hours will be shaken up next? © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

38 New Covid-19 cases declined 11% after hitting a peak last week
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_4bc29b689524a0152ec979c290a2e0f0
(CNN) - New Covid-19 cases in the United States have been trending down since hitting a peak last week, but experts say it's too soon to be overly optimistic.  The US recorded 1.5 million new Covid-19 cases in the past seven days, according to the most recent data from Johns Hopkins University -- an 11% drop from the previous week. Cases declined in 35 states week-over-week, and 18 states saw a drop in the number of deaths. "These kinds of fluctuations, on a statistical basis, aren't sustainable," Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease expert with Johns Hopkins University, told CNN.  "The virus has established itself in the human population and it's not going anywhere," Adalja said. "We're going to see a lot of transmission until we cross the threshold for herd immunity." With a longer range view, last week's apparent improvement falls much closer to average. Over the past month, the number of new Covid-19 cases recorded each day has ranged from nearly 101,000 to more than 302,000; over the past seven days, new cases averaged about 218,000 daily.  These broader trends could indicate that the US is beginning to flatten the curve, said Dr. Edison Liu of The Jackson Laboratory, a nonprofit research institution.  Flattening the curve is not the endpoint, but it is a positive step in the right direction, Liu told CNN. "Flattening the curve means we've stopped the exponential rise of infection; that whatever intervention we have worked," he said. "But that's only the first step. What we're really looking for is a consistent downward trend." It's still too early in the vaccine rollout to consider the vaccines a factor contributing to the decline in cases. "There has not been enough vaccination to see a full effect nationally," Adalja told CNN. And new, potentially more contagious strains of the virus pose an added threat, experts say.  "It's a race against time to reimpose protective behaviors and equip ourselves against the spread of virus," Liu said. "If we allow it to spread, you will see an increase, definitely, in the number of cases." Despite what the data may be say, experts agree that continued vigilance is key. "I wouldn't let our guard down," Adalja said. "Biologically speaking, nothing is changing." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

39 Tesla has started deliveries of the Chinese-made Model Y
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_691f3d0ac2456958bdf8a5713ab0d4c4
Hong Kong  (CNN Business) - Tesla has begun rolling out locally made Model Y crossover vehicles in China, reaching an important milestone in the world's largest auto market. The electric carmaker announced the news on Twitter on Monday, releasing photos of the SUV being purchased from a company showroom. The Model Y is the second vehicle Tesla has made and sold in China, after deliveries of the Model 3 kicked off last year. Both lines are being produced at the company's sprawling Gigafactory in Shanghai, where manufacturing started in 2019. The Model Y starts at 339,900 yuan ($52,400) for the "long range" version, and 369,900 yuan ($57,000) for the "performance" version. Deliveries began Monday in cities including Shanghai, Hangzhou and Wuhan, the company said in a Chinese social media post. To help customers feel more comfortable, staff also packed a "virus prevention" kit in the new vehicles, which included bottles of hand sanitizer, it added. Going big in China China has increasingly become a critical part of Tesla's global strategy, with CEO Elon Musk once calling its factory there a "template for future growth." In 2019, the company beat its own deadline to start making cars in China, kicking off trial production only 10 months after it broke ground on the plant. That boosted confidence that the company had the ability to hit delivery targets as it grew. Tesla has said that the initial goal for the Shanghai factory is to make 250,000 cars a year, before ramping up to 500,000 units. It revealed last October that it had hit that first goal, while "continuing to expand" capacity significantly. The company was also the first foreign automaker to be allowed to open a factory in the country without a Chinese partner, putting pressure on local players.  Tesla previously won a tax break for some of its cars, which helped make its prices more attractive to customers. It also lowered the price of its Model 3 to qualify for government subsidies. The debut of the Chinese-made Model Y has been hotly anticipated, with the launch seen as another challenge to Chinese rival Nio, which sells its own line of electric SUVs. Tesla has recently leaned more heavily on its Chinese operations, including a decision last October to start exporting Chinese-made vehicles to Europe.   It also has plans to push deeper elsewhere in Asia, including a launch in India that is expected to happen this year. Meanwhile, the Chinese auto market is predicted to become even more crucial in the coming years. "By 2022, we believe [more than 40%] of Tesla's overall delivery sales could come from China, as this remains the main growth region going forward, followed by Europe, then the US," Wedbush analysts wrote in a note last week. — Serenitie Wang contributed to this report. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

40 Melania Trump departing White House with lowest favorability of her tenure
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_bede0eca900c0ac6c31e8ba7b606054a
(CNN) - Melania Trump will be exiting the White House with the lowest favorability rating of her tenure as first lady, according to a new CNN poll.  At 47%, more people have an unfavorable view of the first lady now than at any point since CNN first asked about views of her in February 2016. The poll, conducted by SSRS for CNN, puts Trump's favorable rating at 42%, with 12% of those asked answering they are unsure of their feelings about the first lady. Trump's highest favorable rating was in May 2018 at 57% according to a CNN poll taken at the time, which came on the heels of the first state dinner and Trump's attendance at the Texas funeral of the late first lady Barbara Bush. Trump went to the funeral without President Donald Trump. However, by December of that year, public opinion of Melania Trump had fallen by double-digits following her solo trip to Africa. At that time, her favorability was at 43% and her unfavorable at 36%, according to a CNN poll conducted at the time. The first lady's current favorability rating is notably higher than the President's (33%) and among Republicans, her favorability number (84%) is higher than either the President's (79%) or the Vice President's (72%). Public opinion of Trump as she leaves is dramatically below that of her most recent predecessors. According to a CNN/ORC poll in January 2017, Michelle Obama departed the White House with a 69% favorable rating, which was the same number as when she entered, eight years prior. Laura Bush's parting ranking was also largely positive, despite her husband's unpopularity at the time. In 2009, a CNN/ORC poll put Bush at a 67% favorable rating, while George W. Bush was only viewed positively by 35%. Hillary Clinton will also beat Trump as a better liked first lady. In a November 2000 CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll, just prior to Clinton's exit, her favorable number stood at 56%, fourteen percentage points higher than Trump. The methodology and weighting for the poll had been modified compared with previous CNN polls. Interviews conducted on cellphones made up 75% of the total, up from 65% in prior surveys. Dialing extended over six days rather than four days, allowing for more effort to be made to contact those who are not easily reachable. Demographic weighting was adjusted to account for more discrete education categories broken out by race, and a geographic weight was applied to ensure representative distribution by population density. In addition, results were weighted for partisan identification and lean among independents, with targets computed using an average of the current poll plus three recent CNN polls. The new CNN Poll was conducted by SSRS January 9 through 14 among a random national sample of 1,003 adults reached on landlines or cellphones by a live interviewer. Results for the full sample have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage points. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

41 Opinion: Melania Trump's disappointing break with tradition
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_1957abc9759a631bbc0eaca8e32aa32d
Editor's Note: Kate Andersen Brower is a CNN contributor and the author of "First Women: The Grace and Power of America's Modern First Ladies," "Team Of Five: The Presidents Club in the Age of Trump," "First in Line: Presidents, Vice Presidents and the Pursuit of Power," and "The Residence: Inside the Private World of the White House." Her most recent book is for children, "Exploring the White House: Inside America's Most Famous Home." The opinions expressed here are hers. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN) - Understandably lost in the morass of the horrifying things that have happened leading up to Joe Biden's inauguration is something that did not happen. Melania Trump will become the first modern first lady not to invite the woman who will replace her to the White House for a walk-through of the private living quarters on the second and third floors.  From Bess Truman and Mamie Eisenhower's meeting, to the visit Laura Bush hosted where Jenna and Barbara Bush showed Sasha and Malia Obama how to slide down the banister in the Residence, to the visit where Michelle Obama invited Melania Trump even after Donald Trump had questioned her husband's citizenship, this tradition has long been one of the first lady's many unwritten obligations. And Melania Trump has discarded it. It's perhaps unsurprising that Melania Trump has flouted a social norm of her position. Every one-term president -- and his wife -- have felt the sting of defeat, but unlike her husband, none of them have refused to accept the election results. Betty Ford was furious when her husband lost his 1976 race to Jimmy Carter. "No matter who follows you, you know they didn't deserve to be there," she once said. Scathing, yes, but brutally honest. Ford canceled the tour she was to give to Rosalynn Carter twice, and when it finally did take place, Carter said she received a "brief, but cordial" walk-through. The important thing, though, is that it happened. Ceremony matters. Traditions matter. Our expectations about what's normal and civil behavior in our society matters. The usually peaceful transfer of power happens once or twice a decade. Lady Bird Johnson called Inauguration Day "the great quadrennial American pageant," and I agree. It's a rare event when we're reminded that we are part of something bigger than ourselves, and while a meeting over tea served on silver platters in the Residence between two powerful women married to presidents might seem quaint, that tradition is meaningful. It grounds us, knowing that two people who may have very little in common are acknowledging that something as momentous as the transfer of presidential power also touches the lives of real families not so unlike ours.  Another difficult transition came in 1980, after Carter lost to Ronald Reagan, and Rosalynn Carter had to give Nancy Reagan the tour. Still, she dutifully walked Reagan through the second and third floors, describing her efforts to showcase American paintings. But the outgoing first lady abruptly cut things short without showing Reagan the presidential bedroom and study. The mood was reinforced by the temperature: Jimmy Carter, because of the ongoing energy crisis, insisted on keeping the living quarters a cool 65 degrees during the day and 55 at night.  "The chill in her manner," Nancy later wrote, "matched the chill in the room." These meetings aren't always filled with tension; they sometimes set the stage for long-lasting relationships. Michelle Obama and Laura Bush were able to work together later in part because of those first interactions. The transition from the Bushes to the Obamas is considered one of the smoothest in modern history, though Laura had to put aside some ill will during that visit. As she wrote in her memoir, "It is easy to criticize a sitting president when you are not the one in the Oval Office, when you are not responsible for the decisions that must be made...I thought of that when I heard the daily rants from the campaign trail. It got so that even the weather seemed to be George's fault." Barack Obama, she felt, was more consumed with attacking her husband than he was with going after his rival for the presidency, John McCain. But Laura Bush invited Michelle Obama to the White House twice, once alone and once with her daughters. She showed her the dressing room window, which has a view through the Rose Garden to the West Wing, where first ladies can occasionally catch a glimpse of their husbands at work It's a standard stop on the tour. But the first stop on Laura Bush's tour was special: The bedrooms she thought Sasha and Malia, then ages 7 and 10, would like best.  These visits make the presidency -- and all the family roles that go with it -- more connected to the humanity of the people who hold them. In their meeting as mothers with young daughters were perhaps the seeds of the moment in 2014 when Obama, then first lady, and Bush hosted a meeting (coinciding with President Obama's US - Africa Leaders Summit) with the spouses of African leaders that focused on the role they could play to improve education and health care in their countries. At a 2016 event at the George W. Bush Presidential Center, Michelle Obama praised her predecessor. "As you all know, I deeply admire and respect Laura. And I think that it's important to collaborate with people you admire and respect, regardless of party. That's what makes a democracy work, truly." Last April, the two former first ladies participated in a joint event to raise money for Covid- 19 response. A collaboration like this is hard to imagine between Melania Trump and any other first lady. Former presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama will attend Joe Biden's inauguration and after they will join Biden at Arlington National Cemetery for a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Michelle Obama, Laura Bush and Hillary Rodham Clinton will also be there. This display of unity will bring Melania Trump's decision to do away with tradition into stark relief. When Hillary Clinton gave Laura Bush her tour, she led her to that window in the first lady's dressing room and said, "Your mother-in-law stood right here and told me that from this window you can see straight down into the Rose Garden and also over to the Oval Office." I wish Melania Trump had done the right thing and shown Jill Biden that same spot, whether she felt like doing it or not. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

42 Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner face new cold post-insurrection reality
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_72643b143afedb3d20b134f5771bb0ef
(CNN) - When Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner shared their decision to pick up and move their family to Washington from New York four years ago, multiple sources who know the couple said the idea was the White House years would allow easy entree to their ambitious next steps: Kushner would become a powerful player in global politics and Trump would become a shoo-in to a higher office of her own.  The couple have never been shy about their combined love of power. When they got engaged, Ivanka Trump said in an interview that she knew Kushner was the one when she found his ambition matched hers.  "Jared and I are very similar in that we're very ambitious. That's what makes it so amazing to be in a relationship with someone who is supportive of that," Trump told New York Magazine in 2009. Yet now they find themselves staring down the end of the ignominious Trump presidency: the United States Capitol still showing signs of the deadly mob attack that breached the seat of democracy, thousands of National Guard troops cordoning off the city, President Donald Trump impeached (again) for his role in inciting the mob and the family patriarch robbed of his most powerful outlet after getting permanently banned from Twitter.  To fulfill their goals, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner need to pull off the pivot of all pivots.  Instead of a smile-and-wave final White House chapter, the couple are busy trying to keep the President from saying too little or too much, throwing themselves on a grenade they aren't certain will detonate but not able to take the chance either way.  A White House official sent this statement when asked for comment: "Ivanka came to Washington to give back to a nation that has given her so much and to fight for policies that help hardworking American families. Over four years, she spearheaded policies that created jobs, empowered American workers, fed families in need and supported small businesses throughout the pandemic. She is proud of her service and excited for the future." Ivanka Trump was among those who pushed her father to make the Twitter video that ultimately got him banned in the wake of the riot, according to a White House official. In it he told rioters to "go home," but in an off-script moment added, "We love you."  From her office in the West Wing, Ivanka Trump was fielding calls from Capitol Hill politicians who were literally hiding from a vicious and violent mob. Sen. Lindsey Graham, a ubiquitous presence with the President during golf outings and holiday jaunts to Mar-a-Lago, could not get in touch with Trump to beseech him to publicly call for a stop to the insurrection, a source familiar with the conversation told CNN. So Graham called Ivanka Trump, pleading for her to help talk to her dad. Kushner intervened when other officials tried restoring the President's social media presence on sites that are often havens for extremists, such as Gab, following the unprecedented ban from several major platforms.  It was again Ivanka Trump key among the aides who pushed the President to issue a subsequent video in the wake of his impeachment, again denouncing any future violence or plots to wreak havoc across the country. There were no words of "love" this time. The latest move was motivated by fear of potential legal exposure by the President, a source familiar with the taping told CNN.  And according to sources who have worked and socialized with Ivanka Trump and Kushner, their motivation was likely their fear over the state of their beloved moneymaker -- the Trump brand.  "They're trying to keep what little is left for them in terms of sellable currency as Trumps," said one source, who added the change from "before insurrection" to "after insurrection" has moved the needle on the state of the Trump empire from perilous to dire.  "The proof here about how worried (the family) is is how quiet they are," said another source, who notes the muzzled Twitter screeds and the dialed-back bravado, most notably of Ivanka Trump's brothers Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump.   Ivanka Trump's planned "farewell tour" of sorts to shore up the policy wins is now shelved, said someone with knowledge of the discussed public relations blitz. The eldest Trump daughter has not made secret her desire to explore running for office herself, confirm several sources, two of whom wondered aloud to CNN whether those dreams are now impossible to achieve.  "The idea that anyone will forget that her father incited these attacks is about zero," said one political operative who has worked in Republican politics. "If she wanted future voters to overlook just how devastating the end of this administration is, that's a big lift." The future is Florida? In December, Trump and Kushner closed on the purchase of a $30 million plot of land on exclusive Indian Creek Island just north of Miami, with plans, friends say, to build a private estate. Murmurs that Trump wants to challenge Florida's GOP Sen. Marco Rubio for his seat in 2022 are growing -- or at least they were before the insurrection. Adam C. Smith, former Tampa Bay Times political editor and now consultant with Mercury Public Affairs, said it's still possible Ivanka Trump could get a pass in Florida, where the MAGA crowd is strong, and forgiving.  "Until there's real evidence that the Trump brand is diminished with the activist base and dominant MAGA wing of the party, and not merely among elected Republicans and establishment types, I think Ivanka would remain the clear front-runner against Marco Rubio," he said. Trump could also sit back to see what public sentiment dictates for her future, or she might want to wait the required seven years of Florida residency and then run for governor. One source who knows her noted that Trump has never had a problem believing in her own importance.  "Lack of self-confidence is not something she suffers from," the source said. Politics or no, Florida at least provides a more living-friendly environment than New York City, where several former friends have said the couple will not be welcomed back into social circles with open arms.  The Kushner-Trumps also have a cottage at Trump Bedminster Golf Club in New Jersey, which was recently renovated to add more bedrooms. It's possible they could land there for some amount of time, but politically New Jersey is not Trump country, either.  Florida, where Ivanka Trump campaigned several times in the run-up to the presidential election, could provide a partisan haven, but the ease that she and Kushner were to have to parlay their years in Washington into new personas in the Sunshine State is now gone. Family dynamics The Trump family itself is not the same as it was in terms of relationships from the years before Washington to the present day.  The most fractured of the bonds is likely the tenuous friendship Trump previously had with her stepmother, Melania Trump. The two women are undoubtedly the most powerful and influential in the President's life, and prior to the White House years both were aware and respectful of one another's turf, according to sources familiar with the dynamic. However, Ivanka Trump's perceived incursions into first lady Melania Trump's lane have led to tension between the women that's so bad, one source told CNN, there is little desire by either to be in the same room.  In recent months, Ivanka Trump and Melania Trump have not, in fact, been publicly photographed together, with the exception of the presidential debate in September and the Republican National Convention in August, where Melania sat on one side of the President with their son, Barron, her parents and the Pences, with Ivanka Trump across the stage on the other side.  At Thanksgiving, Ivanka Trump and the adult siblings went to Camp David, while Trump ate dinner at the White House with Melania Trump, Barron Trump and her parents. Over the Christmas holiday, Ivanka Trump and Kushner did not visit Mar-a-Lago as they had in years past. Though Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner have separate living space at Mar-a-Lago, where the outgoing first couple intends to live post-White House, one source said Melania Trump "hasn't exactly rolled out the welcome mat." The elder Trump siblings have simmering issues, too, most stemming from how the President has behaved over the past two weeks.  "There's been some finger-pointing," said someone with knowledge of the situation.  But if there were ever a time for the Trump family to get on with its bunker mentality and try for an image upgrade, it would be now -- or the hotels, real estate, branded retail and any future Trump-touched business entities could be irretrievably damaged.  "I think this is one time the family has to acknowledge that their actions have had consequences," the source said. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

43 Silent Melania Trump plods toward end of her husband's tumultuous term
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_b0ce84930f4a09fe64d10a308c6cc3e3
(CNN) - Two days after his supporters rioted on Capitol Hill last week, President Donald Trump informed the world he would not be attending President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.  "To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th," tweeted Trump via his official account, which no longer exists. Many inside the White House were hearing the President's thoughts on this important and historic issue definitively for the first time -- including his wife, according to a senior White House staffer.  First lady Melania Trump has spent the last several weeks operating inside a gray area of what might happen, with many big decisions such as this one made at the whim of the man to whom she is married.  Until that tweet, the White House staffer said, Melania Trump was not 100% sure she would be going to Biden's inauguration, or wouldn't be. "It's not the first time she has learned what he was doing because he tweeted it before he told her," said the source, who downplayed the significance of the first lady being delivered news about what is ostensibly her schedule too, based on Trump's mood that particular day.  The staffer, like many, was clear that the event with the tweet did not solicit their sympathy for the first lady.  "She's part of this. She can be silent, but she's part of this," the source said. "This" being the recent activities of the President, the denial of his loss, the complicity of inciting inflamed supporters with lies and conspiracy theories, and the abject abdication of an official role. The outgoing first lady hasn't done anything of significance as the weeks of her tenure come to a close. She hasn't established an office for continuing her platform in the post-White House years, according to a source familiar with her activities. Nor has she helped with the onboarding of incoming first lady Jill Biden -- with whom she has still not made contact, the source said. The only thing Trump has done, besides pack the White House, work on photo albums of her time as first lady and oversee photo shoots of a rug and decorative items, is make a convoluted statement about the events of last Wednesday, five days after they occurred. "There's never been any first lady as stubborn and defiant as Melania Trump," says Kate Andersen Brower, author of "First Women: The Grace and Power of America's Modern First Ladies." "I think she's digging in. I think she has channeled her husband's fury and is obviously not interested in playing the traditional role of a first lady who, in times of crisis, seeks to unite and soothe the country."  Instead, she has stood by the President, something she hasn't always done before in times of turmoil. In her Monday morning statement, Trump did not mention her husband's name, nor did she indicate he should receive an iota of responsibility for the insurrection.  Instead, she appeared to lift parts of old statements and speeches into this new one, and added in a paragraph painting herself as a victim of a former staff member's continued criticism. Trump's reclusive manner has, at times, churned up public curiosity about just how aligned she is with the President, particularly when he's being criticized. Her hand swats, steely eyed visage and frequent outbursts of independent opinion crafted a possible scenario for critics of her husband that perhaps she was not like him, or even, did not like him.  But if the last few weeks have proven anything, it is that she is more aligned with the President than most would assume.  "She understands her husband and what he stands for, and it simply does not bother her," said Brower. "She is not a victim and she will not leave the White House apologizing for her husband's behavior." Trump 'not sad to be leaving' As the President publicly railed against the election, fraudulently claiming it was rigged and clinging to the false hope of staying in the White House, his wife was packing up their things to move out, say multiple sources who have observed Trump's activities since late November.  The first lady is now more than halfway done with the job of shipping belongings either to Mar-a-Lago or to storage, having bit-by-bit overseen the moveout for weeks. The residence staff has had to help with the semi-clandestine operation, facilitating packing logistics without raising the ire of the President, who truly believed he would be staying put.  The residence staff stay on in their roles, many through several administrations. It does not matter who the President is, it matters only they represent the American presidency.  "They are the most patriotic people I've ever met," said Brower, whose first book was "The Residence: Inside the Private World of the White House." "They have been going ahead with the move, but they had to do some of it undercover because they do not want to upset (President) Trump."  Melania Trump's expediency in getting packed and ready to go also signals her desire to be done with Washington and the last four years of dramatic highs and lows.  "(Melania Trump) is not sad to be leaving," said one White House official with knowledge of Trump's mood.  That's one place she differs from her husband -- he wants desperately to stay, she's cool with going.  "Pat Nixon is the most recent example I can think of of a first lady who compares at all to Melania Trump," said Brower, but perhaps only in circumstance, not action.  "As Watergate raged on, Pat Nixon spent lots of time sequestered in her room alone in the Residence. Butlers brought her breakfast and often she would only drink the coffee. People around her grew concerned about her health because it was obvious that Watergate was taking a toll and she was losing weight," the author said.  Bucking tradition Those who have been around Trump in the last two weeks have not noted a demeanor shift to isolation and sadness, in fact it was Trump's lack of emotional connectivity to the terrifying riots that unfolded live on television, and her lack of desire to issue an immediate response or condemn the violence in real time, that prompted two of her longest staffers to submit their resignations effective immediately, sources said.  "Usually the first lady of a one-term president comes to his side publicly. President Ford served less than a full term and Betty Ford actually stepped in to read his concession letter to Carter when he lost in 1976," Brower said.   On Wednesday, an announcement was made that Blair House, the historic official guest house of the White House where several Presidents (including Trump) have stayed overnight before their swearing-in, would welcome Biden to stay as well. CNN has previously reported Biden, without an invitation yet extended to him by the President and first lady for Blair House, intended to stay at a hotel on Inauguration eve.  But the invitation was not sent at Melania Trump's insistence.  "She had nothing to do with it," said the staffer. The invitation may have read "White House," but it was issued via the State Department, whose Office of the Chief of Protocol oversees Blair House's management. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

44 McConnell, Schumer close in on power-sharing agreement in evenly divided Senate
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_3c75bc4f9295a80ce3194908e982c686
Washington  (CNN) - The top two Senate leaders are nearing a power-sharing agreement to hash out how the evenly divided chamber will operate, with Democrats in charge of setting the schedule but both parties likely to hold an equal number of seats on Senate committees, according to sources familiar with the talks. The negotiations between Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer and Republican Leader Mitch McConnell have been built largely around how the Senate operated the last time the body was split 50-50: When George W. Bush initially became president in 2001. Final details are still being sorted out between the two leaders, sources said. Similar to those rules, set in January 2001, Schumer and McConnell aides are discussing allowing bills and nominations to advance to the Senate floor even if they are tied during committee votes, something that could become common given that each party is expected to have the same number of seats on committees.  Democrats will hold the chairmanships of the committees, giving them power to set the agenda, and Schumer will be granted the title of majority leader since Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will cast tiebreaking votes on the floor. The full chamber still has to ratify these procedures, but that is expected to occur once Schumer and McConnell have finalized their agreement. Democrats are still waiting for the seating of the two new Georgia Democrats -- Sens.-elect Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff -- who won their runoff races this month. Georgia election officials had expected the certification process to be completed by Tuesday, and if it is, it's possible the two senators could take their oaths and be sworn in that day, according to Democratic sources. Harris resigned her Senate seat on Monday, and will soon be replaced by Democrat Alex Padilla. It's still uncertain when Padilla will be sworn into office. Once Harris gets sworn in as vice president and the final three Democrats take their Senate seats, their caucus will be in charge of a 50-50 Senate with Harris breaking ties. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

45 Rudy Giuliani voted with an affidavit ballot, which he bashed in failed effort to overturn election   
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_1dccd832d7116ed9ffaea0aeb4102335
(CNN) - President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani personally voted in the 2020 election using a voting method he publicly disparaged and bashed in his attempts to overthrow the presidential election results, a CNN KFile investigation has found.  Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, voted in Manhattan by an affidavit ballot, also known as a provisional ballot, after his name did not appear on the voter rolls when he showed up to vote.    According to records obtained by CNN's KFile, Giuliani's registration was moved to his Long Island home in August and his registration in New York City was purged in September. Giuliani told CNN he did not know why his registration was moved to his Long Island home in August and contested that he changed his registration at all.  Giuliani swore in an affidavit oath that he was registered to vote in the Manhattan district and cast his ballot there. A New York City Board of Elections official told CNN the vote would count, citing a provision in the state's election law.   Giuliani has baselessly claimed that a high number of provisional ballots cast in Pennsylvania proved instances of fraud; he further suggested that voters were given provisional ballots when they showed up to vote after Democrats cast fraudulent ballots on behalf of voters.  "To give you another example, we have 17,000 provisional ballots cast in Pittsburgh. Do you know what a provisional ballot is? Provisional ballot usually happens [sic] this way, and about 15 of the 17,000 happened this way: you walk in and you say, 'I'm here to vote today.' 'Oh, Mr. Giuliani, you already voted.' 'I did? I don't remember voting.' 'Oh, yes. Yes. You cast an absentee ballot.' 'No, I didn't.' 'Yes, you did.' 'No, I didn't.' 'Yes, you did,'" said Giuliani.     Giuliani continued, "Why did it happen 15,000 times that people in Pittsburgh walked in to vote and they had already voted, according to the Democrat election machine? Did they forget? That many people with bad memories in Pittsburgh? Or is the following correct, that, as witnesses will testify, they were instructed by the Democrat bosses when they had a ballot in which there was no one registered, just assign it to somebody, just assign it to Rudy Giuliani. So, maybe Rudy Giuliani won't show up to vote. And, if he does show up to vote, we'll give him a provisional ballot."   In a statement to CNN, Giuliani claimed he never registered to vote elsewhere and said his case was another example of voter irregularities, if not fraud from the New York State Board of Elections.   "I have never been registered anywhere else. I have voted in NY County for 28 years and not move [sic].I was US Attorney there and Mayor. This was one of NY State's numerous voter irregularities, if not voter fraud. The signature on the Suffolk County registration is clearly a fraud," Giuliani said in a text message.  CNN reached out multiple times to the New York State BOE for comment but did not receive a response.  CNN obtained copies of Giuliani's voter file through open records requests to the New York State, New York City, and Suffolk County boards of elections. The file also shows Giuliani has voted by mail nine times in the past, dating back to 2002.    The records initially indicated that Giuliani did not vote in the 2020 election, but a further search found that Giuliani voted in Manhattan on Halloween.   Because Giuliani's name did not appear on the voter rolls in New York City when he showed up to vote early in Manhattan, he cast an affidavit ballot swearing he was registered to vote in the district where he voted. CNN obtained a copy of Giuliani's signed affidavit oath swearing he was registered to vote in New York City.    Despite Giuliani not being registered to vote in New York City at the time, New York City Board of Election spokesperson Valerie Vazquez-Diaz told CNN the vote was valid and would be counted. The NYC BOE pointed to a paragraph from a 2019 press release from New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's office on landmark election legislation on the universal transfer of registration, which says that when a voter moves elsewhere in the state, their registration should "seamlessly" move with them.     The law states that it shall transfer the registration and enrollment "for any voter who submits a ballot in an affidavit ballot envelope which sets forth such a new address," effectively working as a way to change a voter's registration on Election Day.  Jerry Goldfeder, a prominent New York election and campaign finance lawyer who previously worked for Cuomo when the governor was the New York attorney general, explained to CNN that the universal transfer of registration is "elastic" and that it gives voters who own multiple homes across the state a choice of where to vote from.    "If a voter has more than one bona fide residence, she or he can choose from which one to register and vote. And the law is sufficiently elastic to allow the voter to switch voting residences back and forth—but of course they can't vote more than once in an election," Goldfeder said in an email. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

46 Australian Open political turmoil raises questions for Tokyo Games
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_6867b8c9527c78435e3a6a3a632e6649
Sydney  (CNN) - The quarantine controversy over tennis' Australian Open has raised questions about whether large-scale international sporting events can take place in the middle of a pandemic and could offer a preview of the difficulties facing this summer's Tokyo Olympics. Players arriving in the Australian state of Victoria have been placed into a 14-day quarantine ahead of their grand slam matches. Most have been allotted five hours each day to go out and train in strict bio-secure bubbles, but 72 players have been unable to leave their hotel rooms and cannot practice, under strict quarantine rules after passengers on their flights tested positive for Covid-19. Some tennis stars have expressed anger and frustration at being kept cooped up ahead of the first grand slam of the tennis season. They include record eight-time Australian Open men's singles winner Novak Djokovic, who put forward a list of proposals that would loosen the restrictions on the quarantining stars, including moving players to houses with courts, better food, and reducing the number of days in isolation.  In response, Victoria State Premier Daniel Andrews said: "People are free to provide lists of demands, but the answer is no." Athletes have also raised concerns over whether those who can go out and train would have an unfair advantage over their competitors who have to isolate. Canadian player Vasek Pospisil was a passenger on one of the three flights into Melbourne that had a handful of positive Covid-19 tests from those on board, meaning he is barred from going out to train during quarantine. He told CNN that the level of risk of an entire group on a flight having to undergo strict quarantine wasn't properly communicated to the players ahead of time, a claim Tennis Australia refutes.  "All the players, we understood that if somebody tested positive that it would just be the group, like if somebody in your staff tested positive, then you would have to be quarantined; you wouldn't be able to practice. There wasn't any discussion about the whole plane going that way, so obviously it was a huge surprise to everybody," he said from his hotel room in Melbourne.  But many Australians appear to have little sympathy for the athletes, many of whom have flown in from coronavirus hotspots to compete for a share of total prizes worth 71.5 million Australian dollars ($55.1 million). The Victoria state capital Melbourne, the second-most populous city in Australia, was under a hard lockdown for 111 days last year. Residents contended with a curfew, closures of businesses, bans on leaving their homes, online schooling and job losses.  Some Melbourne residents expressed concerns about the impact on the community once the players have left post tournament. Many are worried restrictions could be reimposed if the virus -- particularly new, potentially more transmissible variants -- managed to get into the population because of the tournament.  New cases linked to the tournament On Monday, Victoria reported four new Covid-19 cases, three of which are related to the Australian Open tournament, according to the state government of Victoria. The number of people linked to the tournament and have now tested positive for the virus is now seven, after two cases were reclassified as "shedding," rather than being actively infected. Among the new cases are two unnamed players and one non-playing participant.  "I think that the players are lacking perspective as they have been playing in countries where Covid is nuts," Melbourne resident and Grade 5 teacher Sarah Fuller told CNN.  "Melbourne, after being through so much does not want any more restrictions or hard lockdowns due to the virus getting out. So for me, it just demonstrates a lack of understanding of where they are in the world and that it's a privilege to be able to play the game they do as their job." Like many people across the world, Fuller and her husband Trevor have had to navigate the struggles of extra hours working from home and keeping her students engaged in online learning through the pandemic. With family in another state, and the death of a grandparent, Fuller said it has been "exhausting." Fuller and her husband are avid tennis fans and usually buy tickets to the Australian Open. This year, the players, she said, are experiencing just a taste of the restrictions that herself and many others have experienced during the pandemic. "Yes it's difficult, it's not ideal and not normal, but nothing is 'normal.' But it's about keeping the community safe and what we have been able to create is a relatively Covid-free Australia." Australia has managed to handle the pandemic better than many countries, in part thanks to quick action from the state governments. Greater Brisbane, for example, went into a three-day lockdown earlier this month after a case of the coronavirus variant first identified in the United Kingdom was discovered. According to the Victoria State Government's website on Tuesday there are 34 active cases in the region, with four internationally acquired and in quarantine in the last 24 hours, with none acquired locally in that time period. Some have pointed to the unfairness of players being able to travel and train in Melbourne while residents in other states need to apply for a permit in order to cross the internal border to Victoria. Those people who have been to "red zones" over the past 14 days -- including Victoria residents -- cannot reenter the state.  There are also calls to prioritize the more than 38,000 Australians who remain stuck overseas, unable to return in part due to limits on daily international arrivals.  Seeing the number of players and officials chartering flights into the country is likely to fuel the anger and desperation of many Australians abroad who have been waiting for months to return, many with no jobs, housing and facing financial hardships. Path to Tokyo 2020  The controversy has exposed the difficulties of operating a large international tournament ensuring strict coronavirus rules are followed, while maintaining an even playing field for competitors.  All eyes will be on the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, which despite being pushed back a year owing to the pandemic, has elected to keep the 2020 tag. The event will see athletes from all over the world descend on Japan this summer from July 23 to August 8, and the Paralympic Games from August 24 to September 5, after the pandemic forced a year's delay. Japan has signaled it is determined to go ahead with the Games. In a New Year's address to Tokyo 2020 Organizing Committee staff, Chairman Yoshiro Mori said that preparations would proceed "as planned." Covid-19 countermeasures include athletes being tested at least once every four days and traced throughout their stay and "contact with athletes will be kept to a minimum," according to an interim report published on December 2.  Details are scant but a scheme would allow athletes "to engage in various activities including training and participating in competitions during the 14 day self-isolation period after arrival," the report said.  But Olympic officials are facing difficult decisions due to rising Covid-19 cases in the country. A recent poll by Japanese public broadcaster NHK found that 77% of respondents felt the Games should be postponed again or completely canceled, with only 16% in favor of holding them this year. It comes as the capital Tokyo, along with major cities such as Osaka, Kyoto, Hyogo, Aichi, Gifu, Tochigi and Fukuoka -- covering much of Japan's main island of Honshu -- have been placed under a coronavirus state of emergency. The total number of confirmed cases in Tokyo now stands at 86,674 and the city is suffering from a shortage of hospital beds for virus patients.  The International Olympic Committee in December announced the opening and closing ceremonies will be pared-back in keeping with an "overall simplification of the Games." Speaking to CNN last week, former top International Olympic Committee official Dick Pound said that it was unlikely the Games could be postponed again, and so any additional delay would likely mean their cancellation. "The one-year postponement was a proposal by Japan, the Organizing Committee said 'look, we can hold this together for another year, but not further'," he said. "Postponing it for another year, for example, will come at a huge cost, which Japan may not be willing to incur. It will further complicate a crowded sports schedule ...you're going to have the World Cup and football going on, and at some point it's just there's just too much congestion in the overall system." CNN has reached out to the Tokyo 2020 Organizing Committee to comment on its quarantine requirements for athletes. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

47 Police recover 500-year-old stolen copy of Leonardo da Vinci's 'Salvator Mundi' 
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_167508ebc582a7b78e633cbe66c89b53
(CNN) - A 16th-century copy of Leonardo da Vinci's "Salvator Mundi," the world's most expensive painting, has been recovered by police after it was stolen from a museum in Naples.  The artwork, which was likely painted by one of the Renaissance master's students, was discovered at an apartment during a search in the Italian city, according to a statement issued by Italian police. The property's 36-year-old owner was found nearby and taken into custody on suspicion of receiving stolen goods.  The portrait was modeled on Leonardo's famed depiction of Christ with one hand raised in blessing and the other holding a crystal orb. Numerous copies of the work were made during the artist's lifetime by his students and assistants. Although it is not known who created this particular "Salvator Mundi," it is thought to have been painted towards the end of the 1510s by someone from the artist's workshop. The portrait's owner, the Museum of San Domenico Maggiore in Naples, said on its website that there are "several hypotheses" about the painter's identity, with the "most convincing" theory crediting Leonardo's student Girolamo Alibrandi.  It is believed that the painting was created in Rome before being brought to Naples by Giovanni Antonio Muscettola, an envoy and advisor to the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V.  The artwork briefly returned to the Italian capital in 2019, when it was loaned to the Villa Farnesina for its exhibition "Leonardo in Rome." The exhibition brochure described it as a "magnificent" copy of the artist's masterpiece. The San Domenico Maggiore's online listing meanwhile described the work as a "refined" and "well preserved" pictorial draft.  Police did not specify when the painting had been stolen, though the Naples museum reported being in possession of the work as recently as January 2020, when it was returned from Rome.  Leonardo's original "Salvator Mundi" made history in 2017 when it sold for $450.3 million at Christie's in New York. Once dismissed as a copy, it sold in the UK for just £45 ($61) in the 1950s.  While some scholars have disputed the attribution to Leonardo, suggesting it was at least partly created by members of his workshop, the painting was restored and authenticated before becoming the most expensive artwork ever to sell at auction. It is widely thought that the record-breaking bid was made on behalf of Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman.  The "Salvator Mundi" has not, however, been seen in public since the November 2017 sale. After the Louvre Abu Dhabi announced that it would show the painting, it postponed the grand unveiling in 2018 without explanation.  Top image caption: The "Salvator Mundi" copy found in Naples, Italy on January 18, 2021 © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

48 A seesaw for kids on the US-Mexico Border wins Beazley Design of the Year
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_c9a6d445d60fe94ed7501fd92a0976bb
(CNN) - "Teeter-Totter Wall," a temporary interactive installation designed by California-based architects Ronald Rael and Virigina San Fratello, has won the 2020 Beazley Design of the Year, an annual award and exhibition run by London's Design Museum. The installation, which took place in July 2019, consisted of three bright pink teeter-totters -- or seesaws -- slotted into the gaps of the steel border wall that separates the United States and Mexico. It allowed children from El Paso, Texas, and the Anapra community in Juárez, Mexico, to play together in spite of the 20-foot wall, which stands on the most-crossed border in the world and is a continual site of political fracture.  "Teeter-Totter Wall" was designed to illustrate the intrinsic connection between the two lands, and was a collaboration with Juárez artist collective Colectivo Chopeke. "What you do on one side has an impact on the other," Rael told CNN back in 2019, "and that's what a seesaw is." Because of the wall's sensitive context, the project took ten years to realize. It was live for just under twenty minutes, but enough time for it to go viral. Although a temporary installation, Rael said on Instagram that the event was "filled with joy, excitement, and togetherness at the borderwall."  "The Teeter-Totter Wall encouraged new ways of human connection," said Tim Marlow, the chief executive and director of the Design Museum, in a press statement. "It remains an inventive and poignant reminder of how human beings can transcend the forces that seek to divide us." The category winners Five more prizes were awarded for each of the categories of nominees, in "Architecture," "Digital," "Fashion," "Graphics" and "Product."   They include a moveable school, called "ModSkool," designed by the Dehli-based Social Design Collaborative. The project responded to the forced evictions of farming communities in India with a place of learning that is easy to erect and dismantle. In addition, the Chilean feminist arts group Colectivo LASTESIS won for their protest performance "A Rapist in Your Way," which denounces sexual violence against women and the LGBTQ+ community, while luxury brand Telfar was awarded for its popular vegan leather, gender-neutral bag (priced according to the average earnings of a New York DJ for a single night's work).  Medical illustrators Alissa Eckert and Dan Higgins, who work for the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), were awarded for an image seen countless times over the past year: their 3D rendering of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the illness Covid-19.) Lastly, Impossible Foods won for the Impossible Burger 2.0, which aims to be a tastier, juicer patty made from plant-based proteins. "Designs of the Year this year feels more pertinent than ever," said assistant curator Maria McLintock in October. "From designs that create a kinder and healthier world, to those calling out and critiquing systems of oppression, we hope it serves as a time capsule of a shifting world." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

49 David Axelrod: The scary call I got the night before Barack Obama's inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_3a1c70128f4f3dfa0e2538ea26e0e42d
Editor's Note: David Axelrod, a senior CNN political commentator and host of "The Axe Files," was senior adviser to President Barack Obama and chief strategist for the 2008 and 2012 Obama presidential campaigns. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN) - The night before former President Barack Obama's first inauguration, I got an urgent call from Rahm Emanuel, his incoming chief of staff: "Can you call me back right away from a hard line?"   Rahm sounded a bit agitated, which wasn't entirely unusual. But the fact that he was asking me to call from a land line rather than my cell phone was a tipoff that something was amiss. I was visiting friends in Washington, DC, when Rahm's jarring call came and borrowed a corded phone in a bedroom to resume our conversation. "I'm going to tell you something you can't share with anyone -- not even Susan," he said, referring to my wife. "We've been talking to (Michael) Chertoff all day, and there is a serious threat on the inauguration." Chertoff was the outgoing homeland security secretary for President George W. Bush. He shared intelligence that four young men who had been radicalized and gone overseas to train with Al Shabaab, an Al Qaeda affiliate in East Africa, may have slipped back into the US to target the inaugural ceremonies. The threat was considered serious enough that contingency plans had been drawn to quickly disperse the inaugural crowd. If that became necessary, Rahm said, the Secret Service would alert Obama, who would instruct the crowd to follow directions and leave in an orderly fashion. "I can't read the speechwriters into this, so I want you to write a brief statement for the President-elect," Rahm told me. "Meet him right before the ceremony in the Speaker's office and give it to him. He'll put it in his pocket in case it's needed." Out for an evening of celebration before I began my work as senior adviser to the President of the United States, this news brought instant sobriety. I could not sleep, haunted by police sirens that pierced the night and the specter of a looming catastrophe. The following morning, I was committed to do television interviews while Susan and my son Ethan were invited to attend the traditional pre-inaugural service at the historic St. John's Episcopal Church with the Obamas and Bushes. Fearful that the attack could take place there, I was desperate to tell my wife and son not to go, but I would have had to share what I knew, and I was sworn to secrecy. I could only hope it was a decision I would not regret for the rest of my life. I delivered the remarks to the President-elect, as planned. He slipped them into his coat pocket without reading them, and we exchanged a few words about the journey on which we were embarking. A few minutes later, Susan and I sat on the reviewing stand behind the rostrum from which Obama would take the oath of office, looking out at a sea of humanity that extended from the Capitol all the way to the Washington monument. It was a wonderful, inspiring scene, yet I couldn't shed the ominous knowledge that potential terrorists might be lurking in that vast crowd. Thankfully, they were not. But those harrowing 24 hours were a bracing introduction to the grave threats and profound responsibilities we were about to assume. On Wednesday, Joe Biden will take the oath of office from those same Capitol steps, but it will be a starkly different scene. Even before the January 6 insurrection at the Capitol, attendance at the inauguration was going to be limited to dignitaries and a relative small number of invited guests because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now Biden will have to offer our battered nation words of hope and unity from within a fortified green zone, constructed to protect him and the incoming national leadership from homegrown terrorists. The man who did so much to radicalize these Americans will be en route to Florida by then, breaking yet one more norm by skipping the swearing-in of his successor. But he made the right decision. It would have been profane to see him sitting on the same steps the mob he incited had stormed just two weeks earlier. As he wings away to his own uncertain future, Donald Trump will leave for his successor myriad crises and threats that eclipse even what Obama faced when he assumed office amid war and recession in 2009. I'm thinking about our new President and his team as they prepare to take on these extraordinary burdens. Every American should be grateful for their willingness to help lead us out of this awful mess. And though there are clearly some in this bitterly divided nation who would vehemently disagree, we all have a stake in their success. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

50 Jailed for life over plot to behead police officer, Britain's youngest convicted terrorist is now 'suitable for release'
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_18b1c8387ff117dfa82fd5e15f9de14e
(CNN) - Britain's youngest convicted terrorist, who was sentenced to life in prison for masterminding a plot to behead an Australian police officer in broad daylight in 2015, can now be set free, a parole board ruled on Monday. The 20-year-old man, from Blackburn, Lancashire, was aged 14 when he planned the strike in Melbourne for Anzac Day -- a national holiday honoring Australia's war dead -- according to CNN affiliates Seven News and Nine News. Because he was a minor, he can only be identified as RXG. RXG recruited Australian co-conspirator Sevdet Besim, who was 18 at the time, to carry out the attack, in which a police officer was to be beheaded in front of thousands of people during Anzac Day celebrations. The plan was ultimately uncovered and foiled by police, and both were arrested. Later that year, RXG was sentenced to life in prison for inciting terrorism overseas.  But on Monday, the Parole Board for England and Wales ruled that he could be set free, Seven News and Nine News reported. "After considering the circumstances of his offending, the progress made while in detention, and the evidence presented at the hearings, the panel was satisfied that RXG was suitable for release," the board said in a statement. RXG managed to convince Besim that he was much older and had a history of radicalism, and the pair set out the details of the attack in thousands of messages sent using an encrypted app. But the plan was foiled, police say, when RXG threatened to behead teachers at his school in northern England -- prompting counterterrorism experts to crack the encryption code on his phone and find the messages. Alerted by their counterparts in the United Kingdom, Australian police closed in on Besim in Melbourne. In 2016, Besim was sentenced to at least seven and a half years in prison, according to Seven News and Nine News. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

51 Ohio police chief mourns an 'amazing police officer' who was killed during standoff
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_55465e79b6255921e86e8a243b7684dc
(CNN) - An Ohio police officer was shot dead Monday after a suspect, facing an arrest warrant, emerged from a standoff with police and started shooting, officials said. Officer Brandon Stalker, 24, was providing perimeter security during the standoff in Toledo, Ohio, Chief of Police George Kral said.  "Very sad day for the city of Toledo and specifically the Toledo Police Department," said Kral, who described Stalker as "an amazing police officer."  Stalker, who joined the department in July 2018, leaves behind a fiance and a "very young child," Kral told reporters.  The suspect was also shot but information on his condition was not available. Kral said officers from the Gang Task Force recognized a suspect who had vandalized a cathedral earlier in the day standing outside of a building in the Fulton Street area of Toledo.  After speaking with the task force members briefly, the suspect went around the corner of a building, pulled out a gun and went into a house, according to Kral. Officers set up a perimeter and called in negotiators and a SWAT team, Kral said. After two hours of negotiations, the SWAT team deployed gas. The suspect came out of the house with two guns and started shooting. "I'm sad to say that Officer Brandon Stalker was struck once and has passed away," Kral said. The chief did not take questions and said additional information would be provided at a second press briefing Wednesday. Ohio Governor Mike DeWine ordered that all US and Ohio flags be flown at half-staff upon all public buildings and grounds throughout Lucas County and at the Ohio Statehouse, the Vern Riffe Center, and Rhodes State Office Tower in Columbus in honor of Officer Stalker. Toledo Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz said the death of Stalker comes at a dark time for the city. Two other officers have died this year, one in the line of duty on July 4, and another unexpectedly just last week. "This is a very dark and horrific day for the city of Toledo and it comes at a time when the Toledo Police Department has had to endure too many dark and terrible days in the last 6 months," the mayor said. "I call on all Toledoans tonight, to say a prayer for their city, and to challenge themselves to respond to today's horrible events with thoughts of love and light," Kapszukiewicz said. " And perhaps, each in our own way, we can drive out the darkness that we feel in our hearts right now, and provide a brighter path for our police department, our community, our neighborhoods, and everyone who is suffering tonight." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

52 Lockdown lifted at US Capitol Building after brief security scare
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_b5730df10cc65cea58388d918ba1092c
Washington  (CNN) - A small fire at an apparent homeless encampment less than a mile away from the US Capitol Building on Monday prompted the building to enter lockdown, a reflection of the heightened state of alarm at the complex. The incident involved a tent near the Capitol Building, DC Fire and EMS spokesman Vito Maggiolo said. The fire was on the 100 block of H St SE, authorities said, and was reported extinguished around 10:30 a.m. ET. There were no injuries. The report prompted US Capitol Police to tell people inside the building to stay inside, away from windows and to not leave due to what was initially described as an outside security threat. The city's security around its downtown has been significantly strengthened in the wake of the deadly riot earlier this month and President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration. Capitol authorities evacuated the west front of the building as well as the first-floor crypt. "I just tried to leave (the Longworth House Office Building) after getting my Covid test, only to be told that the building is now on lockdown. Apparently some external threat. Propane tanks under some bridge. Stuck in my office," a Democratic congressman told CNN.  This story is breaking and will be updated. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

53 FBI vetting National Guard members involved in securing US Capitol
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_a00564284b5b4388ee4cd290280a6496
Washington  (CNN) - The head of the DC National Guard said Monday that the FBI is vetting troops involved in securing the US Capitol around President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration to prevent any insider threats. The enhanced screening measures come as thousands of National Guard members are patrolling the streets of the nation's capital ahead of Inauguration Day. "What happens is they're screened before they leave their state and what it is is a credentialing process so they're screened and they're repeatedly screened until they are actually put on the street," Major General William Walker told ABC's "Good Morning America." Walker did not say that the screening included specific questions about the members' beliefs surrounding the legitimacy of the election, but they are carrying out enhanced background screening. "No, it's all about the background. So, a regular background check is enhanced with more screening, more details and it's layered so the FBI is part of it, the Secret Service is part of it and once they are certain that there's no insider threat then that soldier, guardsman or airman is given a credential," he said. Walker stressed that members of National Guard are screened upon their entry to the service and this is another layer. CNN has previously reported that the US Army is working with the Secret Service to determine if there are soldiers who will be part of the National Guard contingent providing security at the inauguration who require additional background screening. The DC National Guard is also providing additional training to service members as they arrive in the nation's capital that if they see or hear something that is not appropriate, they should report it to their chain of command," an Army spokesperson said in a written statement to CNN last week. "There is no place for extremism in the military and we will investigate each report individually and take appropriate action," the statement said. "The Army is committed to working closely with the FBI as they identify people who participated in the violent attack on the Capitol to determine if the individuals have any connection to the Army," the statement said while adding that any type of activity that "involves violence, civil disobedience, or a breach of peace," may be punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice or under state and federal law. Current Defense Department policy requires all service members be trained annually under a program that requires department personnel to report "any information regarding known or suspected extremist behavior that could be a threat to the department or the United States," the statement said. New details emerge linking a rioter to military The vetting comes as new details have emerged linking a rioter involved in the January 6 US Capitol insurrection to the US military. Among those charged in connection with the riot so far is an Army reservist who federal investigators say has security-level security clearance and a long record of posting his extremist views online.  Federal investigators said the Army reservist — Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, of Colts Neck, New Jersey — was described by an informant as "an avowed White supremacist and Nazi sympathizer," according to court documents. The court documents also say, in a phone call with the informant on Thursday that was recorded by law enforcement, Hale-Cusanelli can be heard saying that he encouraged members of the mob to "advance" through the Capitol and gave directions "via both voice and hand signals." It's not clear if he's been arrested. Efforts to find and eliminate extremism within the military's ranks, particularly among those who espouse White supremacist beliefs, began long before this month's riot at the Capitol but have taken on increased urgency in the days since.  Extremist groups, including White supremacists, place a premium on recruiting current and former members of the military, a senior defense official said last week, while also trying to get their group's extremist members into the armed forces. The groups want the experience and expertise of the military. "We know that some groups attempt to actively recruit our personnel into their cause, or actually encourage their members to join the military for purposes of acquiring skills and experience," the senior defense official said. "We recognize those skills are prized by some of these groups not only for the capability it offers them, but it also brings legitimacy to them in their mind for their cause." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

54 US Postal Service removing mailboxes for security reasons ahead of inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_b36f25e4cfc31940e2432bbe9d69419c
(CNN) - The US Postal Service has temporarily removed some mailboxes in several major cities across the country, a security measure ahead of next week's inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. Mail collection has been suspended at some mailboxes as well, according to the Postal Service.  "It's part of our normal procedures to keep our employees and customers safe during times of protest or when large crowds are gathered near postal facilities, on postal routes, or by mailboxes," Postal Service spokesman David Partenheimer told CNN on Saturday. Mailboxes will be temporarily removed as a security measure to protect postal property, employees and the public, according to press releases from Postal Service jurisdictions in at least 17 states and Washington, DC.  In Washington, DC, mailboxes will either be temporarily removed or locked, and notices have been placed on the individual boxes indicating the date they will be unavailable for service, according to the Postal Service. At least 14 post offices in the nation's capital will be temporarily closed as well on Inauguration Day. The Postal Service removed mailboxes in Washington, DC, during the inauguration of President Trump in 2017 as a safety measure, Partenheimer said. The expansion of security measures to other locations across the nation is based on the Postal Service's awareness of "planned protests or other situations involving large crowds" in key cities and areas, Partenheimer said.  States and cities around the country are preparing for unrest ahead of the January 20 inauguration. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has received information indicating "armed protests" are being planned at all 50 state capitols and in Washington, DC, according to an internal bulletin obtained by CNN. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

55 Muslim advocacy group warns American Muslims and Black communities to avoid state capitol buildings ahead of inauguration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_7d27be4fa3fcc0a56200fbde3e77b2da
(CNN) - The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) has issued an advisory warning American Muslims and other minority groups to avoid state capitol buildings and surrounding areas ahead of Inauguration Day. CAIR also urged Muslim houses of worship and community centers to protect themselves "due to threat of far-right, White supremacist violence" following the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol.  "CAIR is deeply concerned that far-right insurrectionists unable to vent their political grievances at the national or state capitols will target minority community centers and houses of worship as an alternative for their destructive rage," CAIR's government affairs director Robert McCaw told CNN. "CAIR is warning the Muslim community to prepare themselves for this reality," he said. "We want to make sure everyone is safe." Law enforcement and state officials are on high alert for potentially violent protests in the lead-up to Inauguration Day, with some state capitols boarded up and others temporarily closed ahead of Wednesday's ceremony. The FBI says it has received information warning of "armed protests" in all 50 state capitols beginning Saturday and the US Capitol in Washington, DC, beginning Sunday, ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's swearing-in. Domestic extremists pose the most likely threat to the inauguration, particularly those who believe the incoming administration is illegitimate, according to a joint bulletin from the Department of Homeland Security, FBI and eight other agencies that was obtained by CNN. CAIR advises anyone who chooses to counter protest to read its "Know Your Rights" guide so they can responsibly  engage with law enforcement. "CAIR is warning any Muslim that makes the choice to be a counter protestor to assert caution and remain safe as they encounter White supremacists, but also law enforcement officers that target Black or Muslim peaceful counter-protestors instead of the extremists," McCaw said. CAIR's chapter in Minnesota, the epicenter of heated protests over the police killing of George Floyd, says the warning extends to Black communities and other minorities. "For Muslims and especially Black Muslims, what happened on January 6 showed a clear difference in treatment in how law enforcement treats White rioters," CAIR Minnesota executive director Jaylani Hussein told CNN. "We just want to warn Black people attending counter protests to remember police will not act the same way to you as they act towards White people storming the capitol." "The risk isn't only from White supremacists, but also from police," he added. US investigators have so far opened 275 criminal cases and charged roughly 98 individuals in connection to the January 6 riot at the US Capitol. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

56 Army Secretary says National Guard's riot response was hampered by archaic system
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_72a3413619854ad43673b274493f6d06
(CNN) - Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy said Monday that the National Guard and law enforcement response to the deadly US Capitol riot was hampered by an archaic system and criticized the current method of defending the nation's capital in a crisis as "overly bureaucratic." In an interview with CNN, McCarthy called for overhauling the bureaucracy, including the process of ordering in the National Guard, which has happened twice in seven months. He called for the process to call in federal authorities to protect Washington, DC, to be simplified and said the current system is "almost arcane and overly bureaucratic." "There's too many people that are involved with the decision, and ultimately no one, one single person responsible," McCarthy told CNN, adding, "It makes it very difficult and slow in the response." CNN previously reported that efforts to mobilize the National Guard during the unprecedented crisis were hamstrung by bureaucracy and confusion between Pentagon, DC government and Capitol police officials. But questions as to why the National guard was not fully activated until hours after the violent mob descended on the Capitol have continued to emerge in the days since. Four federal agencies announced Friday they are opening investigations into their own roles on January 6. The Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice and the Interior Department will all examine their preparations for the events in Washington that day that may have played a part in allowing rioters to breach the Capitol. "You saw a lot of people run into friction in support of the Capitol Hill police. It came far too close. Something like this should never happen. This country has the talent and the resources to do anything. But the pre-planning and coordination and the intelligence were not really managed well, and we were not in a position to be successful that day as a country," McCarthy said.  'Tremendous confusion' On Monday, McCarthy described a situation of "tremendous confusion." "No one really understood the situation. No specifics or clarity what the size of the crowd, where they were, did they actually breach the building," said McCarthy in an interview at the Pentagon. McCarthy said he "ran down the hall to get authority to launch" the National Guard even as he "didn't have great understanding" of what was happening after a phone call with DC Mayor Muriel Bowser and DC Police Chief Robert Contee.  "A lot of confusion because we weren't asked for help" in the leadup to the event, McCarthy said. An official familiar with conversations in the DC government previously told CNN that the Pentagon was too hesitant to deploy troops ahead of the protest and once the situation deteriorated rapidly they said defense officials took too long to approve the deployment of additional troops. But McCarthy has repeatedly said the Pentagon worked as fast as it could to understand the situation on the ground and get the guard to Capitol Hill. Facing increased scrutiny about the timeline, the Pentagon has pushed back, outright rejecting accusations that defense officials denied any requests for help. When the first calls for aid came shortly before 2 p.m., "the request was amorphous," a senior defense official said, adding it was a nonspecific "We need help" request. Insider threat Efforts to find and eliminate extremism within the military's ranks, particularly among those who espouse White supremacist beliefs, began long before this month's riot at the Capitol but have taken on increased urgency in the days since.  Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller said Monday that there is "no intelligence indicating an insider threat" to President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, though National Guard members arriving in Washington are being vetted by law enforcement. The enhanced screening measures come as thousands of National Guard members are patrolling the streets of the nation's capital ahead of Inauguration Day. CNN has previously reported that the US Army is working with the Secret Service to determine if there are soldiers who will be part of the National Guard contingent providing security at the inauguration who require additional background screening. "We don't know the size and scale of the problem," McCarthy told CNN. "We are working with federal law enforcement to vet our people, obviously ones in particular supporting this operation. But you would do that in most cases."  "We're taking the extremist threats very seriously. And we're vetting all of our soldiers. We're going to continue to look at the entire army as a whole and how we can ensure that these threats are not in our formation. And if they are, we'll find them and we'll get rid of them," he added. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

57 Steph Curry ends Lakers' winning streak with impressive performance for Golden State Warriors 
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_c35f5c8481017ef102f05cc8f0e8eb88
(CNN) - Steph Curry left it late to lift the Golden State Warriors to a 115-113 victory against the LA Lakers after a dramatic finale on Monday.  The 32-year-old finished the game with 26 points and scored a three-pointer with just over a minute left on the clock to overturn his side's 14 point deficit in the final quarter.  The Warriors, who had struggled in the first half, managed to hang on despite LeBron James almost saving the game for the Lakers at the buzzer. "We kept our composure. The second unit was amazing both halves," Curry said after the game, per ESPN. "We got some momentum in the second half to give us a chance and carry us down the stretch." The Lakers had looked dominant early on in the game and had led by as much as 19 points in the first quarter.  But the Warriors came back in the second half, ending a five-game winning streak for the Lakers. James, who finished on 19 points, felt his team was hard done by.  "I think we just had some tough breaks, some tough calls against us in the second half that slowed our pace down," he said after the game. "We couldn't get back into a rhythm." READ: Luka Doncic surpasses Michael Jordan with yet another triple-double Durant and Harden shine for the Nets Elsewhere in the NBA, the Brooklyn Nets squeaked by the Milwaukee Bucks 125-123 in a thriller.  Kevin Durant, who finished on 30 points, scored a late three-pointer to seal the win for his team.  The Nets new star man, James Harden, was also in impressive form and finished with 34 points, becoming the first player to score 30 points in his first two games in Nets history.  The Houston Rockets had traded the 31-year-old to Brooklyn as part of a three-team deal last week.  "He draws a lot of attention," said Nets coach Steve Nash, speaking about the impact the eight-time All-Star has had.  "Any way you slice it, he makes us a better team offensively for sure, and he is incredible at reading the game with the ball in his hands. It's a luxury to have, and we'll get him into real shape and he'll be even better." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

58 A missing teen snowmobiler built a snow cave to survive until rescuers arrived
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_62147ee8228a1d350928f9e2e13a7cc1
(CNN) - After going missing while on a snowmobile, a Canadian teenager managed to survive by building a snow cave to stay in until he was found. A 17-year-old in British Columbia, who has not been named, built himself a snow cave the backcountry to shelter in after being separated from his group, according to South Cariboo Search and Rescue. At around 6:15 pm on Saturday, 100 Mile House Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) was notified of an overdue snowmobiler.  Family and friends of the teen had returned to a parking lot, but he had never showed, according to a news release from RCMP.  Some of the party remained on the hill and began searching, while others left to alert South Cariboo Search and Rescue, who contacted 100 Mile House RCMP. South Cariboo SAR eventually located the teenager, finding him "in good condition," RCMP said in its release. "This young man did everything right after things went wrong," SAR wrote in a Facebook post praising the teen. "He got separated from his group and after multiple failed attempts to get back out of the area, the way he got into it and not knowing the terrain and area, he parked his sled in a wide-open area, walked over to a nearby treed area and built himself an incredible snow cave to spend the night." The post continued, "When our team members came across him, he was in the shelter with food and water. This young man made our task a little less difficult by staying in place and having some backcountry winter survival knowledge." The 100 Mile House RCMP thanked the South Cariboo SAR team for bringing the search to another positive outcome. "We in the south Cariboo are very fortunate to have such a dedicated group of well-trained volunteers to assist in times of need," RCMP Cpl. Madonna Saunderson wrote in a statement. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

59 Guiding gender-atypical kids through puberty 
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_2d865644d3638569dde9fcd3fae5a89b
Editor's Note: Lisa Selin Davis is the author of "Tomboy: The Surprising History and Future of Girls Who Dare to Be Different." She has written for The New York Times, CNN, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian and many other publications. (CNN) - My 11-year-old daughter and I cracked open a book I'd bought for her on puberty and changing female bodies. On the very first page it informed her that, once her body developed, men would start looking at her differently.  We crinkled our noses in some combination of discomfort and skepticism. No matter how her body changed, we both knew she would continue to wear the same oversize hoodies, cargo pants and short hair dyed pink that she'd been sporting for years. However well intentioned and helpful to gender-typical girls the book's messages were, they didn't seem to apply to a kid like mine, who had flouted gender norms her entire life. These books and others like it operate on the assumption that, once puberty hit, girls like mine would feminize and conform. Gender atypical girls have often been tolerated or even encouraged before puberty. "Historically, they were labeled tomboys and there was a high acceptance of that and a presumption that they'd outgrow it," said Robert Blum, professor of public health at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and lead investigator of The Global Early Adolescent Study, which looks at how gender socialization affects health globally.  For a book about tomboys, I interviewed dozens of women who'd had happy tomboy childhoods, or what some have called a "boyhood for girls." (For boys, that kind of gender atypicality was never sanctioned, even in childhood; they were called sissies, or worse.) These girls played baseball or football, hung out with boys and got their hands dirty. Many ran, shirtless, across the fields, until their mothers — they told me it was always their mothers — told them they were getting close to puberty and had to wear their shirts.  Acceptance of their gender nonconforming behavior had an expiration date on it, whether the kids wanted it to or not. Changing bodies, changing expectations Puberty changes the rules of gender, and the force of gender norms and stereotypes bear down, even on kids who might have been immune to them before. In addition to the discomfort of a changing body, kids suddenly encounter changing expectations and social norms, based on their body parts.  Gender stereotypes are international, ubiquitous and harmful, and particularly insidious as puberty approaches, noted Blum's 2017 study, It Begins at 10: How Gender Expectations Shape Early Adolescence Around the World. "There is a global set of forces from schools, parents, media, and peers themselves that reinforce the hegemonic myths that girls are vulnerable and that boys are strong and independent," the report noted. Girls also feel pressure to sexualize, and boys feel pressure to see girls as sexual objects, leading to gender-based violence. In addition, puberty starts earlier for girls than it used to, so many girls' bodies are changing before their minds are ready. Many kids are "really uncomfortable with the kind of messaging that assigns them certain gender roles, or certain attention paid to their gender," said Heather Corinna, an educator and founder of Scarleteen, a sex, sexuality and relationship education site for young people.  Kids internalize the pressure to conform, and police those who don't, Corinna said. So do parents, even unwittingly. Parents treat kids differently based on sex, with separate and unequal rules and expectations, many studies have shown. The damage that conformity can cause  The problem with those unequal rules and expectations is that they can force kids into boxes that just don't fit. Boys who feel pressure to conform to male stereotypes may grow into men with anxiety, who drink too much, tamp down their feelings or are prone to violence, according to ethnographer Maria do Mar Pereira, associate professor of sociology at the University of Warwick in the United Kingdom and author of "Doing Gender in the Playground: The Negotiation of Gender in Schools." Meanwhile, many girls internalize the pressure to be thin; some 5% of girls suffer from eating disorders and some 60% are on diets. Twice as many girls than boys drop out of competitive sports by age 14, due to lack of role models, social stigma and decreased access, among other reasons, according to the Women's Sports Foundation. "This constant effort to manage one's everyday life in line with gender norms produces significant anxiety, insecurity, stress and low self-esteem for both boys and girls, and both for 'popular' young people and those who have lower status in school," Do Mar Pereira's study concludes. Identifying the messages, so we can change them What can we do to protect our kids from these messages and forces? The first thing is for adults and children to realize they're perpetuating them.  Even in an era when some kids learn there are dozens of options for gender identity, gender norms persist. "There's a notion that today there's a lot more flexibility," Blum said. "There isn't. Gender norms are very prescriptive. Gender norms are very restrictive. And everyone reinforces those gender norms."  Girls can be sent home from school for wearing skirts deemed too short, while boys can be given in-school suspension for wearing nail polish.  Parents, Blum said, are often much more focused on restricting their pubertal daughters than their sons. "But boys are at much greater risk for death from violence," he said. Adults can and should examine how they treat their boys and girls differently, and how much gender norms influence their decisions. Widening the range of normal in puberty programming Puberty education can also focus much more on attacking gender norms, much the way education programs for tweens and teens have tackled child abuse or bullying. That means, Blum said, "teaching kids what's acceptable and unacceptable behavior."  What's acceptable? According to Blum and Corinna, dressing or looking any way you want, no matter your sex or gender identity. What's unacceptable? Bullying someone because he, she or they don't look or behave how someone else thinks they should because of their sex. (The use of they/them pronouns are used when referring to an individual who self-identifies as nonbinary, the term that describes a person whose gender identity is neither male nor female.) Parents can tell kids that they don't need to meet adult expectations of their appearance or behavior just because their bodies are changing.  The programming should also be trans-inclusive, and with the understanding that puberty is hard no matter how you identify or who you are, Corinna, who uses they/them pronouns, said. Some kids, for instance, won't know they're intersex until puberty, when their bodies don't perform as expected, based on the sex they were assigned at birth.  If a child is uncomfortable with the idea or experience of puberty, Corinna said, ask why. Most education around puberty doesn't adequately address kids' experiences, they said.  "There's dismissive messaging to everybody," they said. "Trans kids often get the dismissive message that they can't really be trans, they're just uncomfortable with puberty." Meanwhile, Corinna said, it might be suggested to some cisgender kids, or children whose gender identity conforms with the sex they were assigned at birth, whether they're atypical or not, that their discomfort with puberty means they could be transgender. "The idea that kids who are cisgender and also gender conforming would be uncomfortable with common puberty gender messaging rarely occurs to anyone." Fighting stereotypes within families and communities In addition to recognizing how adults treat kids, and improving the kinds of health education they receive, families can present kids with gender-diverse books and media, which have not only trans and nonbinary characters, but also physically and emotionally strong girls and vulnerable, sensitive boys (admittedly, harder to find). "This is an opportune time for communities to encourage the development of positive health and equitable gender norms early in life that can be transformative both immediately and over the life course," a 2017 commentary in the Journal of Adolescent Health noted. In other words, it's incredibly important to widen the range of what's acceptable in early adolescence, a time when society is often narrowing that range. "The goal should be to broaden what it means to be conforming," Blum said.  In the 1970s and early '80s, many kids listened religiously to "Free to Be... You and Me," an album encouraging the blasting of gender stereotypes, and telling girls they didn't have to be traditionally feminine and telling boys they could. "I might be pretty; you might grow tall. But we don't have to change at all," go the lyrics of "When We Grow Up," sung by Diana Ross.  My parents taught me to question why there were different rules of decorum for boys and girls, and I try to pass on those same critical thinking skills to my kids. I tell my child that all the options are open to her, including the option that, as the song says, she doesn't have to change at all.  "Our job is to create a protective environment for kids to be who they will become," Blum said. "And to run interference around those who will try to knock them down because of it." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

60 Colombia's 'cocaine hippos' must be culled, scientists say -- but not everyone agrees
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_a7ac3ddad77d33e3f3d1026a0b4c53e3
(CNN) - Colombia's best-known drug trafficker, Pablo Escobar, may have been killed in 1993 but his influence continues to be felt in the country, sometimes in unexpected ways. Hippopotamuses brought to Colombia as part of Escobar's private zoo at his ranch, Hacienda Napoles, have bred so successfully that there is serious concern over their environmental impact and human safety, according to a new study by researchers at Mexican and Colombian universities. The hippos have spread out from their original home, some 100 miles east of the city of Medellin, in the Antioquia department, dispersing around the Magdalena river basin as their population continues to grow steadily. The authors of the study, published in the January edition of the journal Biological Conservation, recommend that the hippos be culled to prevent long-term negative effects, but other scientists are calling for a castration program to control the hippo population, citing concerns over animal welfare and the attachment of some locals to their new neighbors. Back in the 1980s, Escobar imported one male and three female hippos to join his menagerie. Upon his death, other species of exotic animals were relocated, but the hippos were left because they were difficult to capture and transport, according to the study. The hippos soon began to spread in the surrounding area, but government efforts to cull them were halted after a public outcry. A sterilization campaign was begun instead, but it has done little to slow the hippos' progress.  From 2011 to 2019 four males were castrated and two females were sterilized, but this "does not seem to have an important impact on reproduction," according to the study. Researchers say there are probably more than 80 hippos in the area today, up from 35 in 2012, and they worry that the hippos will continue to spread throughout Colombia if no action is taken.  The study also cites research showing the negative effects of hippo waste on oxygen levels in bodies of water, which can affect fish and ultimately humans, and raises concerns about the possible transmission of diseases from hippos to humans. Hippos also pose a threat to the livelihoods and security of people in affected areas, the study said, eating or damaging crops and engaging in aggressive interactions with humans. The researchers cite incidences of hippos chasing people, as well as a hippo attack in May 2020 in which a 45-year-old man was seriously injured. But while the study's authors recommend a cull, Enrique Zerda Ordóñez, a biologist at Colombia's National University, believes castration programs are the way forward. Culling the hippos would be an "easy option," said Zerda, but it could affect the survival of a species that is under threat in Africa. Though sterilizing hippos is no easy task, he said, he believes it is both possible and necessary to do so now, before their numbers rise further, according to a press release from the university. "Right now, the authorities don't consider the species to be a problem," Zerda said, "but in the future, when there are 400-500 hippos, it could represent a threat to the survival of other species that feed in the same areas."   David Echeverri Lopez, head of forests and biodiversity at the CORNARE regional environmental agency, told CNN that the situation is delicate. "The option of killing them has always been on the table," he said. "However it's very difficult to imagine this could happen at the moment." While the hippos are an invasive species capable of completely changing local ecosystems, people in the area have gotten used to them, Echeverri said. They've become a tourist attraction that people feel some affection toward, he added. Some of the hippos will have to be killed, because it's "practically impossible" to find and relocate or sterilize them.  "But there are some other animals that are located in certain areas, in lakes and places that allow for a birth control plan to be put in place, assuming that adequate resources are available," said Echeverri, who is working with the NGO Animal Balance to try to find alternative solutions. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

61 Man 'lived undetected in Chicago airport for three months' 
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_3902ccc492de574674cf43c16dd02251
(CNN) - A Californian man who was "scared to go home because of Covid" lived undetected in Chicago's O'Hare Airport for three months, according to multiple reports.  Aditya Udai Singh, 33, was arrested on Saturday morning local time at O'Hare and charged with impersonation in a restricted area of the airport and theft of less than $500, the Chicago Police Department confirmed to CNN.  Singh appeared in bond court the following day where, according to the Chicago Tribune, prosecutors said that Singh had arrived at O'Hare on a flight from Los Angeles on October 19. He is then alleged to have lived undiscovered in the airport's security zone until his January 16 arrest.  Singh is reported to have been apprehended after being approached by two United Airlines employees who asked to see his identification. He's said to have then shown them an airport ID badge that belonged to an operations manager who had reported it missing in late October.  Assistant State's Attorney Kathleen Hagerty said in court that Singh claimed to have been "scared to go home due to Covid" and that other passengers had provided him with food, according to the Chicago Tribune. Cook County Judge Susana Ortiz expressed surprise at the unusual circumstances of the case, the newspaper reported. "So if I understand you correctly," Ortiz said, "you're telling me that an unauthorized, non-employee individual was allegedly living within a secure part of the O'Hare airport terminal from October 19, 2020, to January 16, 2021, and was not detected? I want to understand you correctly." Assistant Public Defender Courtney Smallwood told the court that Singh is a resident of the Los Angeles suburb of Orange and does not have a criminal background, the Chicago Tribune reported. Singh's bail is said to have been set at $1,000, with the condition that he does not re-enter O'Hare Airport, and he is due back in court on January 27.  O'Hare Airport is the busiest airport in the world for takeoffs and landings, with pre-pandemic passenger numbers of 84.6 million per year.  CNN has contacted Cook County State Attorney's Office and Chicago Department of Aviation for comment. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

62 He flew to Paris to surprise his girlfriend. She flew to Edinburgh to surprise him
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_7b530ede94b4f9dcd8429cec78bd7a9d
(CNN) - When Finlay McAfee boarded a flight from Edinburgh to Paris to surprise his girlfriend Salma, he knew it was a big, romantic gesture. "I wasn't like trying to compare it to any film, or rom-com, or anything," McAfee tells CNN Travel. But still, anyone who's watched a few movies in their time knows that a surprise visit to one of the most beautiful cities in the world, not to mention an unexpected airport reunion, has been the basis for many a great cinematic moment.  It was January 2017, and McAfee was a 23-year-old student at Edinburgh University. Before he booked his plane ticket, he told his roommate, Adam Jenkins, about the idea. Jenkins laughed, telling him it was silly but romantic.  McAfee phoned his father for the final seal of approval. His dad told him it was a great idea, so McAfee went for it: the plane ticket was booked. Meanwhile, his girlfriend, then-21-year-old Salma Saade, was on her way back to Edinburgh from Beirut.  Saade had a day layover scheduled in Paris, and she was traveling alone. McAfee figured he'd surprise her at Charles de Gaulle airport. In theory, what could go wrong? There weren't that many flights between Beirut and Paris, so McAfee was pretty sure he'd pinpointed which Saade was on. Little did McAfee know that just as he boarded his Edinburgh to Paris flight, Saade was already landing in the Scottish capital.  Turns out, she'd switched to an earlier flight, with the same goal: to surprise her partner and be reunited a day earlier. The couple had no idea that they'd both been transiting through Edinburgh Airport at the same time. Even worse, the Scottish air hub is so small, they could have easily bumped into one another. And if Saade had texted McAfee right away upon landing, he could have avoided getting on his flight. "It's crazy to think about, there's probably a point in Edinburgh Airport where we literally walked past each other," says McAfee. Missed connection Fast forward to January 2021 and Saade and McAfee are still together, now living in London where McAfee is a software engineer and Saade works for the Scottish National Party.  Today, they're on Zoom, drinking coffee together in their kitchen, reminiscing about the early days of their relationship and their missed connection. "We'd only been going out for three months," says McAfee. "Yeah, like two and a half months," says Saade. "It was our first time apart." "We really missed each other," says McAfee.  "Your first time apart is so difficult," agrees Saade. When Saade disembarked her flight in Edinburgh, she decided not to contact McAfee right away. She was tired from the flight -- and she wanted to go home first, shower, get ready -- and then head round to his flat (apartment) and surprise him. "I was ready to be back with my boyfriend... and then I realized we were not in the same place," she laughs. Saade found out things had gone wrong when, back in her apartment, she dropped McAfee's roommate a text. "Hey Adam do you know if Finlay's in the flat by any chance?" she wrote. "I'm back a day early and wanting to surprise him." "He just flew to Paris," wrote back Adam. "Like to do the same thing. Like literally." Saade was in disbelief. "I genuinely thought he was messing with me." She quickly texted her boyfriend: "Please tell me you're not in Paris lol." No answer, so she tried to call him. When McAfee didn't pick up, the realization of what had happened started to sink in. "It was a combination of disbelief, and I don't know, I was upset, but I also thought it was really funny," says Saade. "COME BACK I AM HERE," she typed. "HERE AS IN EDINBURGH NOT PARIS." "I'M SORRY I WAS TRYING TO BE CUTE. COME BACK NOW." "Hahaha," responded McAfee, also in disbelief that his surprise had failed so dramatically. "Wow. I'm in Paris." Saade booked McAfee an airport hotel in Paris for the evening, while McAfee updated his Facebook status: "Anyone in Paris? I flew in to surprise Salma but she flew back to surprise me and now I've got 12 hours to kill." It received 173 likes, and the comments came flooding in: "This situation is trophy-worthy," wrote one friend. "Your love is killing the planet," said another. No friends were in Paris, so McAfee had a solo winter wander around the sites, snapping a photo of himself in front of Notre Dame looking melancholy, and getting that prerequisite shot of the illuminated Eiffel Tower. The next day, he flew back in Edinburgh. Saade picked him up from the airport, her second visit in as many days.  She was just really happy to see him, she says, and for everything to be back in control after things had gone unexpectedly haywire. "Icebreaker story" As they'd only been dating a short while at the time, the couple hadn't met each other's families. In the years since, it's become "a really great sort of icebreaker story," says McAfee. "Anytime I've met Salma's family, we tell the story and they're like, 'This guy's just an idiot,'" he laughs. "We're not a very impulsive couple," says Saade. "Apart from this story, I think we have a very normal relationship. So I find it even funnier that both of us made a really impulsive decision when neither of us are particularly impulsive." It solidified what they'd already started to suspect, that they had a good basis for a strong partnership, and they were falling love. Saade and McAfee had met in the fall of 2016 on Tinder, for both of them, it was their first ever Tinder date and it was a success. They quickly figured out they had a mutual friend in common. The friend had actually been in a student play that McAfee had directed, and Saade had gone to see the show, but their paths hadn't directly crossed at the time. When they finally met, the duo quickly hit it off. They spent their days exploring their historic home city of Edinburgh together -- their second date was a memorable visit to the city's dungeons. Worldwide reaction On January 12 of this year, Saade was reminded of the eventful trip to Paris via Facebook's "Memories" function, where past posts from years earlier resurface on your timeline. The memory made Saade smile, as it always did, and she decided to Tweet about it. "I usually just Tweet about politics," says Saade.  But she thought this slightly more personal post might bring others a bit of joy, as it had her. "Happy 4 year anniversary to when I flew to Edinburgh to surprise Finlay and he flew to Paris to surprise me and this is why we don't do surprises anymore," she posted, alongside screenshots of their messages, and Finlay's forlorn Facebook status. The Tweet has since had over 1 million likes and over 150,000 Retweets and Quote Tweets. Their story has gone viral, much to the couple's surprise. "The whole Twitter response has been really surprising, and lovely," says McAfee. "It's weird that so many people have responded to it, and almost everything everyone has said has been genuinely lovely." Saade says people have reached out to her from across the globe with sweet messages. "Although comparing us to Ross and Emily [from the TV show "Friends"] is not the best comparison," she laughs. In the intervening years, Saade and McAfee have enjoyed other memorable vacations -- ones where they both managed to be in the same place at the same time. Highlights include a snowy road trip through Iceland, and a visit to the stunning Baalbeck Roman ruins in Lebanon, where Saade has family. Right now, the couple are locked down together in their apartment in London. It's been a little surreal, they say, to watch their story reverberate across the world while they've barely left their home. As for Paris, well, the couple have still never made it there together. They'd actually hoped to go last year, but the Covid-19 pandemic put a stop to those plans. But seeing their story spread across the globe, and spending the last week reflecting on that fateful day, has only made them more determined to one day make it to the City of Light together. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

63 London's ICU nurses detail 'diluted' care, depression and disaster during the UK's deadly second wave
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_353bc9a6669dde33343179f9d3468b9d
(CNN) - Last summer, when England's first peak of the coronavirus pandemic had subsided, Fazilah, an ICU nurse at a central London hospital, sat down to write her resignation letter.  For months, she says, a wave of depression had enveloped her, but she had been too busy saving other people's lives to be able to identify it, or process it.  Instead she "shoved" her feelings down into a "dark part" of her brain. The stress manifested physically: She had constant headaches, a short fuse, and couldn't eat, she said.  Fazilah remembers laying on her bathroom floor for three nights -- each time after a grueling shift -- where she said she dry heaved until she fell asleep. "I hadn't ate anything all night so what was going to come out? I fell asleep shortly after, only to be disturbed by those unacknowledged feelings in my dreams instead of when I was at work, because who had time to process anything in that soul-destroying place?" Fazilah ultimately decided to stay at her job, but some of her colleagues did not, "simply due to what they have seen." She's now working through another nightmare: As the UK suffers a devastating second wave of the virus, in the past week 1,182 people have died of Covid-19 in London alone.  Infection rates across the English capital -- the epicenter of the UK's current surge -- are around 1.5 times higher than in other parts of England according to the latest government data. And nationwide, the outlook is grim.  The UK recorded the highest death rate in the world last week, according to Our World in Data, an online scientific publication based at the University of Oxford. The disease has infected more than 3.4 million people and killed more than 89,000 across the nation.  In the first few months of the pandemic, intensive care unit nurses working for the UK's National Health Service (NHS) were stretched thin as they trained staff, converted wards into ICUs and, crucially, were forced to expand the "safe" NHS recommended nurse to patient ratio of 1:1 to 1:2, due to the sheer number of admissions. But as the UK battles this second wave, those NHS workers are being pushed closer to the brink, as they treat more Covid-19 patients in hospitals than at any point in the pandemic.  A number of ICU workers CNN spoke to say they've been pushed to "dilute" the level of care due to the alarming surge of cases, saying that in many cases, they are treating far more than two patients at a time, and sometimes as many as eight. None of them has been authorized by their respective hospitals to speak to the media, and so all have asked for some parts of their identity to remain anonymous. Complex needs, complex care Patients who are admitted to ICUs have incredibly complex needs and are often in multiple organ failure. ICU patients require highly trained nurses to care for them -- specialists who are well-versed in treating their conditions through an array of technological interventions. "When you have one nurse to one patient, you can give excellent care," said one veteran ICU worker, who asked to remain anonymous. They explained that because ICU patients are so sick and on ventilators, they require multiple drugs -- which have to be closely monitored and changed regularly --  to keep them asleep to keep their blood and heart pumping. Plus, they might also be on a dialysis machine, a "demanding" piece of equipment to filter a patient's blood. Nurses also need to closely monitor heart rates and blood pressure, they added, and if something starts to drop, they might have to change the mechanical ventilation filter. "You can imagine if the nurse has to do that much for now four patients, then things are going to potentially get missed," they said, stressing that patients in ICU are now sicker then they were in the pre-pandemic. "That nurse really needs to be with that one patient," they said. On Monday, there were a record 7,917 Covid-19 patients in London's hospitals, 1,220 of whom needed mechanical ventilation, according to government data.  Ameera Sheikh, an ICU nurse and Unite union representative at a London hospital, told CNN that instead of one patient -- or even two -- she and her colleagues are now each looking after up to eight patients at a time. It's a situation that not only compromises the level of care for the sick, but also adds to the stress and well-being of the health care workers providing it. "Nurses aren't able to deliver the care we are used to and should be giving," said Sheikh, who has been working for the NHS for 11 years. "Instead we are increasing the risk of errors occurring that can lead to patients deteriorating, life-threatening situations and death." Sheikh explained that medics without a critical care background had been redeployed to the ICU to help, but as they haven't been through specialized training, ICU nurses are also having to train and teach them on the job.  The NHS has not yet responded to CNN's request for comment.  On Sunday, NHS chief executive Simon Stevens told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show that the nurse to patient ratio varied between hospitals from 1:1 to 1:2 to 1:3, and that staff are making "dynamic adjustments in real time." He said that "patients are being looked after," but that "the key point has got to be, unless the coronavirus infection rate is under control, then here, just as in every other country in the world ... these services will remain under severe pressure."   While NHS England is one of the world's biggest employers, with 1.5 million people on staff, it was already facing a huge workforce shortage before the pandemic, with about 94,000 full-time roles unfilled -- many of them in nursing and midwifery.  In October, the government said that there were nearly 14,000 more nurses working in the NHS than the previous year. The Chair of the British Association of Critical Care Nurses refuted that number, saying that that there was "no evidence" of those nurses in the NHS. The pressures of the second wave have only amplified those shortages, nurses say.  Some have moved out of their homes to be closer to hospitals in order to work more shifts -- and to protect their families, Sheikh explained, adding that even on off days, it's almost impossible to switch off. "Guilt suddenly rushes in because you aren't at work helping. Nurses are receiving WhatsApp messages multiple times a day to work flexible shifts on their time off," she said. "That's how desperate ICUs are."  Hospitals, staff 'under extreme pressure' The veteran ICU healthcare worker, who works at a different London hospital, told CNN that Covid-19 patients are coming in with critically low levels of oxygen every day. Patients are entering the emergency room terrified, she said, explaining that such low levels of oxygen can make you "feel like you are being suffocated." Medics will first attempt to get oxygen levels up with an oxygen mask and by using non-invasive ventilation, but if that doesn't work then patients will need to be put into a medically-induced coma and onto a ventilator. That procedure is fairly routine for doctors, they explained; however, low oxygen levels can make it riskier and in some cases, lead to cardiac arrest. "What is difficult about this [situation] is trying to manage it all at once," the nurse said. They said that this horrifying scenario is often unfolding for multiple patients at the same time, across hospital wards that are not set up for critical care, as the ICUs are already at full capacity. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned last week that the country's ICUs face a substantial risk of being overwhelmed if cases keep rising. There are currently more than 37,400 Covid-19 patients in UK hospitals. Last Tuesday, there were 4,534 new admissions -- the highest number of daily admissions so far in the pandemic. Stevens said that he wasn't going to "sugar coat" the facts, saying on Sunday that hospitals and staff are "under extreme pressure." He said that in England a new person is admitted to hospital every 30 seconds. He said that the NHS had never been in such a precarious position in its 72-year history.   Last month, the Health Service Journal reported that ICU units in London were already running at 114% occupancy, forcing them to stretch capacity, and that requests had been made by hospitals there to send critical care patients to hospitals in Yorkshire, more than 200 miles to the north. Stevens confirmed on Sunday that a "small number" of patients had been transferred from one region to another. Meanwhile, last week, a south London hotel became the first to take part in a government pilot program to relieve local hospitals by converting spare hotel rooms into recovery wards.  Many of the healthcare professionals CNN spoke to for this article hold Johnson's Conservative government accountable for the mess. They say that delayed lockdowns and fumbled messaging around Christmas all contributed to the surge, and have added to public frustrations. On Monday, a government spokesperson told CNN: "Our approach has always been guided by scientific and medical advice. As soon as we became aware that the new variant transmits more easily, we significantly reduced the Christmas relaxations and introduced stay-at-home restrictions where it was most prevalent." "As the Prime Minister has said, we are seeing some early signs of progress, but we continue to monitor the data and keep restrictions under review." Conspiracy theorists who believe that the coronavirus is a hoax and anti-lockdown groups have capitalized on that discord and are making it worse.  Sheikh said she was aware of videos purportedly showing empty hospital corridors and a hospital coffee shop making their way across social media. But patients aren't kept in coffee shops nor in hospital corridors, she said, adding that maintaining patients' dignity and privacy is at the forefront of all care. "These people haven't seen the inside of an ICU and haven't had difficult conversations with families about withdrawing life [support] because we've done everything in our power to sustain it," Sheikh said of the conspiracy theorists.   At a press conference with the Prime Minister earlier this month, Stevens condemned the videos and the people who continue to wrongly claim that the pandemic is not real. "If you sneak into a hospital -- in an empty corridor at nine o'clock at night -- and film that particular corridor, and then stick it up on social media and say, 'This proves the hospitals are empty, the whole thing is a hoax', you are not only responsible for potentially changing behavior that will kill people, but it is an insult to the nurse coming home from 12 hours in critical care, having worked her guts out under the most demanding and trying of circumstances," he said.  "There's nothing more demoralizing than having that kind of nonsense spouted when it's most obviously untrue." A 'constant carousel' While health care workers try to shrug off the people spreading misinformation, many nurses say it does affect morale. Plus, the surge in cases means that planned or elective surgeries are being postponed. Fazilah, the ICU nurse in central London told CNN that she wishes that people could see how much effort and patience it takes to navigate through a day in full PPE without "wanting to shout at someone because you're so tired and frustrated, and your workload is tripled."  "The burden of having three patients is immense," she said, explaining that Covid-19 patients add an additional element of unpredictability, as they can shift from being stable to being in cardiac arrest "out of nowhere." "If one of my three patients suddenly deteriorates, I feel horrifically guilty ... thinking 'Why didn't I see that coming?' or 'What could I have done to prevent it?' -- when in reality I could have done nothing," Fazilah said, adding that "It's extremely difficult" to leave those shifts to rest.  "When you're back the next day ... all you're worrying about is their family and how would you feel if that was your loved one." Not being able to switch off can be frightening, Fazilah said, adding that when a patient dies, there is often little time to grieve before the next patient arrives in the ward. "It's like you're on a constant carousel and you can't get off," she said. Last week, a King's College London study found that a large proportion of intensive care unit staff surveyed in the UK have reported symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety or depression, and some feeling they would be better off dead. For some nurses, having to help families say goodbye to their relatives remotely, since they unable to do so in person, has contributed to that trauma.  Fazilah described the "horrific" experience of having to hold up a tablet to a dying patient's ear so their family members could speak to them.  "The impact of that and imagining that it could be you saying bye to your parents or loved ones, is so much more damaging than people realize," she said. "And it stays with you." © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

64 Rand Paul's dire prediction for the GOP
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_24e89e4fc6cf1b521fb608e634b611a9
(CNN) - Sometime shortly after President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on Wednesday, the Senate will likely begin the impeachment trial of soon-to-be-former President Donald Trump. A number of Republican senators -- including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky -- have signaled they have yet to decide whether Trump deserves to be convicted of incitement regarding the January 6 riot at the US Capitol.  But McConnell's home-state colleague thinks that is a very bad idea -- and could lead to the collapse of the Republican Party. "I didn't agree with the fight that happened last week, and I voted against overturning the election," Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul said in an interview on Fox News Friday night. "But at the same time, the impeachment is a wrongheaded, partisan notion. But if Republicans go along with it, it will destroy the party. A third of the Republicans will leave the party."  Which is a pretty big claim! And if Paul is right, massively raises the stakes for the coming Senate trial and eventual vote to acquit or convict Trump. Here's what we know: In order for Trump to be convicted, 67 senators -- a supermajority -- would have to vote that way. Which means that 17 GOP senators in the new Congress -- where Democrats and Republicans each control 50 seats -- would have to vote to convict. At the moment, that looks unlikely, given that no Republican senator has announced that he or she will vote to convict. But there's no question that McConnell is the linchpin here. If he votes to convict, he gives broad cover for lots of other wavering Republican senators to do so. And there's also no question that the Kentucky senator is at least considering the possibility of voting to convict Trump. "I have not made a final decision on how I will vote and I intend to listen to the legal arguments when they are presented to the Senate," McConnell said in a decidedly leave-the-door-open statement issued shortly after the House impeached Trump last week. McConnell is faced with a stark political choice. He is clearly fed up with Trump and believes the outgoing President represents a clear and present danger to the future of the GOP. Casting a vote to convict Trump -- or being part of a Republican rebellion that led to the President's conviction -- would allow McConnell a very clean break with the 45th president. On the other hand, Paul isn't wrong about the impact such a vote might have within the GOP.  It would almost certainly further splinter the Republican Party between the so-called "establishment" and the Trump wing. And that sort of fracture would make it very difficult for Republicans to win national elections or take back the House and Senate majorities. The Point: The fight for what the post-Trump Republican Party looks and acts like is on. The coming Senate trial will be the first major battle in the broader war. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

65 Trump's impeachment trial looms as Congress prepares for the Biden administration
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_f92b4db04d05a682157d7d676d8906ad
Washington  (CNN) - There are just days to go until President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in, Donald Trump is no longer President and Democrats take control of the US Senate, but rank-and-file members on Capitol Hill are still waiting for signals from leadership about what the first month of Biden's presidency will look like.  It seems the uncertainty of the Trump era isn't going to evaporate on Wednesday because Congress isn't quite finished with Trump yet. The status of impeachment The focus this week is on Biden becoming the 46th President of the United States, protecting Washington on Inauguration Day and preparing for a peaceful transition of power after the attack on the US Capitol.  Talks between incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and current Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's offices are ongoing about what makes the most sense for the timing of the trial. While Biden has made it clear that he wants to split the day in half to allow his nominees to be confirmed in the morning ahead of the trial, that takes agreement from everyone. And it's not clear that all 100 senators are going to agree to it even if McConnell and Schumer could come to a consensus. Again, those talks are ongoing. Aides and members do not expect the impeachment trial to begin until next week at the earliest, but no one knows for sure until House Speaker Nancy Pelosi makes it clear when she will send over the articles. A very important reminder: Don't take the lack of answer for when a trial will begin as a lack of orchestration behind the scenes. We are moving into another chapter in American history where the President, Senate and House are all controlled by the same party and unlike Trump -- who often caught his leadership off guard with rogue tweets or off-the-cuff statements -- Pelosi and Schumer are on the same page here. They don't need Biden to even tell them. They  know what's at stake with an impeachment trial.  Once they go down that road, there is no turning back. The Senate is in session every day starting at 12 p.m. ET with members in their desks, six days a week for as long as the trial goes. Sending the articles too soon without a firm agreement between Schumer and McConnell jeopardizes Biden's first 100 days, his ability to get his nominees through, not to mention any goal Biden had to heal the country after the January 6 attack on the Capitol. If it feels like we are stagnant right now, it's because working through the potential challenges and ramifications of this trial is an incredible undertaking.  As CNN reported last week, once Pelosi transmits the articles, it unlocks an entire series of steps that quickly have to follow. No one wants to move ahead until everyone is on the exact same page about what that is going to look like. What about dual-tracking As we've previously reported, once impeachment starts, the Senate has to convene every day at 12 p.m. for the trial. In order to do anything else, there has to be a unanimous consent agreement. That means all the senators have to be on the same page that they want to allow Biden to work through his agenda in the morning ahead of the impeachment trial unfolding every afternoon. Given the divisiveness of the moment, given the animosity some Republicans have about spending time on impeaching a President who won't even be in office, it's fair to consider whether an agreement like that is possible. Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the incoming majority whip, told CNN's Jake Tapper on Sunday there are always "resistors," but he hoped that members could get behind dual tracking the day.   Things to watch for this week There are five confirmation hearings on Tuesday for secretary of State, secretary of Treasury, CIA director, Defense secretary and secretary of Homeland Security. Aides say it is possible that the Senate could move as soon as Wednesday to confirm some of them to their posts hours after Biden is sworn in. Again, this takes agreement from all 100 senators. We should have more timing guidance Tuesday when the Senate returns. When does Schumer become Majority Leader?  In order for Schumer to become majority leader, incoming Democratic Sens. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, both of Georgia, have to be sworn in. The state has until later this week to do that. Aides close to the process say the expectation is that certification will occur around January 20, but it's normal for the senators to not be sworn in until the day after that certification occurs. That means that it may actually be a day or so until Warnock and Ossoff are sworn in. In other words, the timing is fluid. Don't assume that Schumer becomes majority leader on January 20. We don't know for sure. One more thing to watch for this week Leadership has been working through how the two parties will run the next Senate. Given the narrow Democratic majority (a tie with incoming Vice President Kamala Harris as the tiebreaker), aides have pointed out there is an expectation that Schumer and McConnell will come up with a power sharing agreement modeled after the one in 2001 between Trent Lott and Tom Daschle. The talks are still ongoing so we can't say for sure what that agreement will look like, but in 2001 the agreement allowed for evenly divided Senate committees, evenly divided budgets on the committees, equal access to common areas in the Capitol for both Republicans and Democrats and members from both parties were able to preside over the Senate. Those talks are ongoing just like the talks over how an impeachment trial may be run. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

66 Raskin: I am not going to lose my son in 2020 and country in 2021
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_1c59d7553cf8abd742d809ef4b4a2fe4
Washington  (CNN) - Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin said Sunday that he's "not going to lose my son at the end of 2020 and lose my country and my republic in 2021," in a moving message that comes as he grapples with his family's loss and his role as the House's lead impeachment manager in President Donald Trump's second impeachment. "It's not going to happen," Raskin told CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union." The Maryland Democrat had announced the death of his 25-year-old son, Tommy, on New Year's Eve. The Raskins said Tommy Raskin began experiencing depression in his 20s, something that became "a kind of relentless torture in the brain for him." The comments on Sunday from Raskin come just days after the House moved to impeach Trump for a second time, this time charging the President with inciting a violent mob that stormed the US Capitol, an offense Raskin described as uniquely dangerous.  "This was the most serious presidential crime in the history of the United States of America. The most dangerous crime by a president ever committed against the United States," he told Tapper.  The congressman also said that House Democrats will transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate "soon," an action that will eventually result in the start of Trump's impeachment trial.  "I know that (House Speaker Nancy Pelosi) also considers the President a clear and present danger to the republic," Raskin said.  Raskin, who is one of nine House impeachment managers, also addressed his party's decision to pursue a Senate conviction of an outgoing president, arguing Trump must be held accountable for his role inciting the violent mob on January 6.   "I don't think anybody would seriously argue that we should establish a precedent where every president on the way out the door has two weeks or three weeks or four weeks to try to incite an armed insurrection against the union or organize a coup against the union, and if it succeeds, he becomes a dictator, and if it fails, he's not subject to impeachment or conviction because we just want to let bygones be bygones," he said.  But pressed by Tapper on whether the Democratic impeachment managers would seek witnesses for the impending trial, Raskin declined to give specifics.  "We're putting together a trial plan, which is designed to get the truth of all of these events out," Raskin said. "Obviously, we're not going to be able to tell everyone's story, but we are going to be able to tell the story of this attack on America and all of the events that led up to it."  Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin told Tapper on the same program Sunday that his party's leadership hasn't promised when it will deliver the impeachment article to the Senate but added that "we have a responsibility to act as quickly as possible." Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader who will soon become majority leader, said last week that Trump's trial can "begin immediately" if an agreement with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell can be reached -- but the Kentucky Republican has made clear that the trial won't start until after January 19. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255). There is also a crisis text line. For crisis support in Spanish, call 1-888-628-9454. This story has been updated with additional details Sunday. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

67 Trump campaign says the President has not yet chosen impeachment defense team
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_08aabb37f852022f75540f51226b89c4
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump has not yet assembled a defense team for his upcoming Senate impeachment trial, a spokesperson for the President's campaign said Sunday.  "President Trump has not yet made a determination as to which lawyer or law firm will represent him for the disgraceful attack on our Constitution and democracy, known as the 'impeachment hoax.' We will keep you informed," Hogan Gidley, the campaign's national press secretary, wrote in a tweet early Sunday.  The announcement comes as the President stares down his second Senate impeachment trial, with this one set to take place after he leaves office later this week. The chamber will consider an article of impeachment passed by the House last week that charged Trump with inciting a deadly riot at the US Capitol earlier this month.  Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader who will soon become majority leader, said last week that the trial can "begin immediately" if an agreement with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell can be reached -- but the Kentucky Republican has made clear that the trial won't start until after January 19. Though the President hasn't formally announced a legal team to defend him in the trial, his longtime personal attorney Rudy Giuliani was seen at the White House on Saturday, and the former New York mayor told ABC that day that he is involved with and working on the President's impeachment defense ahead of the trial. But Trump has told people he wants to stop paying Giuliani's legal fees in recent days out of frustration that he faces a second impeachment, though aides were unsure how serious the President was about his instruction.  CNN has reported that Trump blames Giuliani for his current predicament; Giuliani has played a leading role in promoting the kinds of election conspiracy theories that drove Trump supporters to storm the US Capitol on January 6. Giuliani is still expected to play some role in Trump's defense. Meanwhile, John Eastman, the conservative attorney who falsely told Trump that Vice President Mike Pence could block the certification of Biden's win, could join Trump's legal team defending him in the upcoming impeachment trial, a person familiar with the matter said. But those discussions are still preliminary and Eastman isn't yet formally a part of the team. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and her deputy, Brian Morgenstern, both had their last day on Friday, leaving the White House press shop largely vacant for the remainder of Trump's term. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

68 The Senate gets to call the shots for Trump's impeachment trial
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_43ed363b20405d5014b9b6ce5fe2eac2
(CNN) - When the US Senate moves forward with an impeachment trial of soon-to-be former President Donald Trump, senators would have full control over how they run it, based on history and Supreme Court precedent.   Trump, who desperately fought his first impeachment proceedings and has remained defiant through his second, could not appeal the Senate's action.  The Supreme Court affirmed in a 1993 case that impeachment is the domain of the two chambers of Congress, with the US House having the right to accuse and the Senate the "sole" power to try the accusation.  Then-Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote that the Constitution leaves no room for judges to intervene in Congress' business. To rule otherwise, Rehnquist said, would conflict with the framers' intentions and expose the country to "months, or perhaps years, of chaos."  Still, an array of questions has emerged since the US House of Representatives on January 13 impeached Trump, opening the door to a Senate trial, for inciting the violent resurrection at the Capitol on January 6.  Practical considerations hover along with substantive issues. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has not yet set a date for delivery of the articles of impeachment to the Senate, and senators would be organizing a trial just as they take up the agenda of new President Joe Biden.  No president has been tried after leaving office. In earlier centuries, however, two other officials were impeached and subjected to some Senate action after they resigned. Among the basic questions spurred by a groundbreaking trial for an ex-president is whether the Chief Justice John Roberts would preside, as he did at Trump's first impeachment trial one year ago.  Many legal scholars believe a former president can be subject to trial, and even some who differ, recognize that the 1993 precedent, in which Mississippi federal judge Walter Nixon unsuccessfully challenged Senate trial procedures in his impeachment case, case could thwart a Trump appeal to federal courts.  Yale University law professor Akhil Reed Amar said constitutional history and precedent allow the Senate to try former officials, including the President.   "It would be absurd if you could escape by resigning one step ahead of the gavel," said Amar, author of "America's Unwritten Constitution."  In 1876, the Senate tried William Belknap, who was war secretary in the administration of Ulysses S. Grant. Belknap resigned just as the US House was voting to impeach him. He was charged with "criminally disregarding his duty as Secretary of War and basely prostituting his high office to his lust for private gain." The Senate determined that the former secretary could still be tried. After a lengthy Senate trial with dozens of witnesses, Belknap was acquitted.  University of Missouri law professor Frank Bowman, author of "High Crimes and Misdemeanors: A History of Impeachment for the Age of Trump," said the Constitution provides for removal, as well as "disqualification" from holding office, because the framers were concerned about future dangerous conduct.   "The framers were worried, principally, about getting a president out of office," Bowman said, "but they were also worried about the rise of a demagogue."  Bowman and Amar say the Walter Nixon case, along with the text and structure of the Constitution, would prevent Trump from drawing federal judges into an impeachment dispute.   Ross Garber, who teaches at Tulane Law School, asserts that the Senate may try only a sitting president but nonetheless agrees it would be difficult for Trump to find a court that would hear his appeal.  "I think the reasoning of Nixon (case) could be a problem for any Trump litigation effort," he said, adding that "it is very unlikely the Supreme Court would stop the Senate in its tracks in a direct Trump challenge to its jurisdiction."  Garber added: "Strategically, Trump is likely better off not litigating but instead appealing directly to the senators."  Who's on the dais?  The Constitution dictates that "The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors."  The process for impeaching a federal judge is the same as impeaching a president. Judge Nixon was impeached and convicted in 1989, after an earlier criminal conviction for lying to a grand jury about his efforts on behalf of a defendant whose father had given his money. Federal judges are appointed for life, and impeachment is the only way to remove them from their post and judicial salary.  After his Senate conviction, Nixon's lawyers challenged in federal courts the Senate's use of a committee to take evidence, saying that violated the full Senate's constitutional responsibility to "try all impeachments."  The Supreme Court unanimously rejected Nixon's claim. Chief Justice Rehnquist was among seven of the nine judges who found that the case presented a "political" question beyond review by judges.  In his opinion for the high court, Rehnquist explored the 18th Century constitutional debates over where the impeachment power should reside. "According to Alexander Hamilton," Rehnquist wrote in Nixon v. United States, "The Senate was the 'most fit depositary of this important trust' because its Members are representatives of the people."   Justice David Souter, who agreed that the case presented a "political question," wrote separately to suggest an exception for maneuvers that threatened the integrity of the result, "say, upon a coin toss." But no other justice joined his concurring opinion.  Nearly six years later, Rehnquist presided over the impeachment trial of President Bill Clinton, just as Chief Justice Roberts did for Trump's first trial in 2020. The Constitution states, "When the President of the United States is impeached, the Chief Justice shall preside," rather than any senator or the vice president, who under the Constitution serves as the Senate president.  But if the trial is of an ex-president, the question of who presides is an open one.   Amar is among those who believe Chief Justice Roberts would not take the chair high on the Senate dais this time.  He said the framers' rationale for requiring the chief justice to preside in trials of a president stems from the natural conflict of interest of a presiding vice president. If the Senate convicted and removed the President from office, the vice president would succeed him.  The framers believed the chief justice should preside, Amar said, "precisely because the vice president is next in line." But Bowman said even after a president has left office, a chief justice could still oversee a Senate trial.  "Any prudent organizer of the trial would insist that the chief preside," he said, adding that the presence of the chief justice of the United State would lend "legitimacy" to the proceeding. "Now, he will have his own views on the matter. But the best read (of the Constitution), and the most prudent read, is that he would preside."  Asked what Chief Justice Roberts thought, a spokeswoman said he had no comment. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

69 Pelosi demands acting Pentagon chief halt his order to NSA to install Trump loyalist as general counsel
http://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_b014dc424220e4095d80912ff819736e
Washington  (CNN) - House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is demanding acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller "immediately cease" his plans to install a Trump loyalist as the National Security Agency's general counsel, calling the move "highly suspect" and arguing it represents a "disturbing disregard" for the country's national security.  "I ask that you immediately cease plans to improperly install Michael Ellis as the new NSA General Counsel," Pelosi wrote in a letter to Miller on Sunday. The California Democrat also said she was calling for an probe "into the circumstances of the NSA General Counsel selection process" by the department's acting inspector general.  "The circumstances and timing -- immediately after President (Donald) Trump's defeat in the election -- of the selection of Mr. Ellis, and this eleventh-hour effort to push this placement in the last three days of this Administration are highly suspect," the letter read.  "Further, the efforts to install him or 'burrow' him into a highly sensitive intelligence position 72 hours prior to the beginning of a new administration manifest a disturbing disregard for our national security. Therefore, this placement should not move forward." The demand by Pelosi represents the most significant opposition to Ellis' appointment yet. Her letter came on the same day that the NSA said it was installing Ellis into the post, a move that Miller ordered NSA Director Gen. Paul Nakasone to carry out.  Ellis, who worked for Republican Rep. Devin Nunes of California, one of Trump's staunchest supporters, before joining the National Security Council, was already facing opposition from Democratic Sens. Mark Warner and Jack Reed. The two had also requested an investigation into the agency's selection process within days of Ellis being picked for the job last November.  The agency's selection of Ellis is significant because the role of general counsel at the country's largest intelligence agency is a civil service position, not a political role, meaning it could be difficult for the Biden administration to remove Ellis.  Pelosi, who wrote that there were "irregularities" in the selection process, noted in her letter that Ellis is "a relatively recent law school graduate with a limited resume, was selected due to interference by the White House, and was chosen over much more qualified candidates."  "If Mr. Ellis did go through the traditional civil service hiring process, I request a detailed account of that process, to understand how someone with his credentials was chosen over other qualified candidates," Pelosi wrote.  "The General Counsel of the Department of Defense is the sole selection authority for the position of General Counsel of the National Security Agency - as well as all other senior career DoD General Counsel positions," according to a Sunday statement from the Department of Defense. "The Director of the NSA does not select or approve of candidates for the position of the NSA General Counsel." "To be clear, congressional or media interest in a particular hiring action are not justification under the merit system principles and process to delay placing a selected qualified individual in a position," the statement added. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage) Go to the full CNN experience

